---
tags:
  - ETERNITY
  - WIP
---
Hasha was a city state on the north western reaches of [[Vinovia]]. 

Hasha was governed via populist monarchy, and its final ruler was [[King Anton]]. Prominent thought leaders that influenced Hasha towards its end days, who would later influence the world at large, include [[Dimitri]] as former arcane advisor to the masses, [[Mania]] as former advisor on inter-state relations during wartime. While nominally, the monarch had final say on the laws and practices of Hasha, the governmental operation of the city state more closely resembled a society of codes and bylaws, in which governance was fashioned out of consensus, and desirable behaviors are outlined, rather than undesirable illegality. It is this anarchic, government-by-populism that critics point to when explaining the chain of events leading to the spectacular fall of Hasha, [[The Day that Hasha Died]].

Hasha was founded in 1,244 BS, and consisted solely of a gathering hub and disparate housing. As Hasha gained popularity as a welcome reprieve from the harsh desert wind, its population grew too. In art, settlers are often depicted as enjoying Hasha's fine wine and company, and having deep conversations over open fire, and open sky. As its population grew, so too did the need for structure and governance, but the ephemeral denizens who populated Hasha could not sustain a continued republic. Instead of laws and judges, Hasha elected to govern itself by way of established codes and bylaws, or a series of desirable traits. Such a form of governance enabled a great deal of vigilante action, in which individual actors who believed another to be acting out of code, would take the matter into their own hands. This lawlessness eventually led to the creation of the throne, circa 900 BS, as more permanent citizens desired a guiding force to dole out punishment, and not a system of uncoordinated vigilantes.
## The conditions leading to Hasha's downfall
Dimitri behaved as a compromised actor, the Brudel's Tyrus Terim exploited this weakness to gain decisive information on the city's defenses and warrior count, and Pharasma's vested interest in the death of thousands propelled the city into death and destruction.
## History
At the start of the ETERNITY campaign, the party gathered at Valentia to prepare for an expedition into Hasha's remains. There, they discovered the temporal stasis that the city has been plunged into, as well as one Anton Essa. Following Anton's taking of the [[Tear of Time]], Hasha's stability as an everlasting festival began to erode.

At the end of the ETERNITY campaign, Anton attempted to escape the party by flinging himself into the past. Instead of escaping backwards in time alone, he instead took the party of ETERNITY with him, who promptly slew him. When Agnar stabbed Soultaker through Anton, the temporal bubble at Hasha finally collapsed, sending the party of ETERNITY back into present time. Hasha was then transformed into a nucleus of floating rock and rubble, which it remains as to this day.