---
tags:
  - ETERNITY
  - SOULREND
---
The Realm of Chaos is one of the three fragments of the [[Prime Material Plane]] created after the [[Shattering]]. The Realm of Chaos was flung far away from Tyria's reach, left to bask in the wild influence of space. The Realm of Chaos was gathered back together under the [[Solstice]], after centuries of aberration.
## Solstice and the Realm of Chaos
In the Solsticed timeline, the Realm of Chaos was merged back together with the Material Plane and the Shadowfell, recreating the Prime Material Plane. The effect that the Realm of Chaos has on the Material is primarily focused on the lifeforms of Tyria. Animals across Tyria randomly find themselves evolving into forms previously never seen before. A few successors of the dinosaurs evolve backwards into dinosaurs. A creature fitting the description of Qatar Altan's Rayquaza is spotted in the upper atmosphere. Common plants, herbs, and crops, have a chance to genetically mutate into new, strange variations of the previous plant, with heightened medicinal effects, stranger, worse flavors, or gaining the ability to be farmed in increasingly hostile regions. 

The newly-teethed and armed wildlife of Tyria would have been an existential threat to societies across the Material plane. However, thanks to the threats offered by the Shadowfell, the wildlife are pitted in a battle not against cities and structures, but against shadow. This conflict ignites further evolution in the wildlife of Tyria -- not evolutionary, but socially. Animals that traveled in packs do so with increasing amounts of structure and numbers. The dinosaurs of Dino Park become deeply territorial, and protective of the land that ETERNITY allowed them to have. Primates begin to display a limited affinity for tools. Sand worms, once hostile to the Ja'Almawt, begin picking off the shadows threatening the Ja'Almawt, but for no apparent benefit to themselves. These are but a few examples of the threefold-network of factions that now compete for space and control over land in the Prime Material: the original Material denizens, the twisted creatures of the Shadowfell, and the uncontrollable creations of Chaos.
## History
Prior to the ETERNITY campaign, Signus' home academy, the [[Tower of Magic]], was blasted into the Realm of Chaos by an unknown force. Following the Solstice, the Tower of Magic was brought back to its home in Metrica Province -- with an untamed ferocity to it.

In the ETERNITY campaign, Signus was discovered by Mileina, a wizard thought to be lost alongside the Tower of Magic. She appeared to be much more unhinged than Signus remembered her, having developed an uncanny obsession for the Tabaxi. Following the Solstice, Mileina and Signus' townhome was wedged into Amsa on Cat St., where they remain.

In the ECLIPSE campaign, the party ventured through a portal into the Realm of Chaos after hearing Deimos Tenebris' cries coming from it. There, they discovered Deimos was being forced to use his Shadowfell-affinity to summon creatures forth from the Shadowfell, at Dimitri's will. After forcibly removing him from the room's machinery, Dimitri's laboratory fell into the swirling vortex raging at the base of the Realm.

Following the SUNDER campaign, Arthas and company ventured into the Realm of Chaos through an abnormally-present door in Dawnguard's Spiral Castle. There, Arthas formed a pact with a blade he discovered, the party met with a mummy prophet, and fought a malicious, elven foe.

In the Eclipsed timeline, the Realm of Chaos became so deeply tainted after 100 years in the chaotic space goop that Chaos itself became influential on the Realm. Over the course of those 100 years, Chaos' influence became dominant over Signus, enabling its will to be enacted upon the Realm, and the Material.