---
tags:
  - ETERNITY
---
The Shadowfell is a former fraction of the [[Prime Material Plane]] that was sent into the depths of [[Tyria]]. The Shadowfell is one of 3 fragments of the Prime Material plane, alongside the Realm of Chaos, and the Material Plane, that was formed as a result of the [[Shattering]]. Its landscape is a weary reflection of the Material; devoid of life, and covered in cavernous scars and ashen mountains. The Shadowfell is a plane cloaked in the [[Dark]], chock full of the sadistic, the bloodthirsty, and many warped, twisted beings. Following the [[Solstice]], the Shadowfell was merged back into the Material Plane, alongside the Realm of Chaos, and brought with it all of the evil and madness that had festered within.
## The intricacies of the Shadowfell
Pre-Solstice, getting into the Shadowfell required a shadow crossing. A shadow crossing is a planar passage, similar to those that send mortals to the Boneyard, typically found in any location whose moral makeup bears resemblance to the Shadowfell: graveyards post-sundown, sites of mass suicide and/or mass graves, humanoid trafficking centers, and crime-ridden alleyways, are all prime candidates of a shadow crossing. 

There is no god worshipped in the Shadowfell. Unlike the Material Plane, (and to a lesser extent, the Realm of Chaos,) the Shadowfell is a manifestly atheist plane. The lack of a god to direct or withhold the Dark, resulted in a plane of creatures who have learned to harness the Dark themselves. This proximity to the Dark has demented the evolutionary chain of any creature participating in the Dark. As a result, creatures from the Shadowfell are bastardized parodies of creatures from the material, with some wielding the blind fury of the Dark more elegantly than others: arachnids have grown well over 12 ft. tall; some scavenger birds have learned to hunt isolated travelers in groups; flurries of shade have spawned, manifesting as its perceiver's greatest fear(s); bugs and insects have massed in swarms weighty enough to topple a grown Dwarf; some dogs have learned to feign innocence and domesticity, in order to gain proximity to isolated, Human children. These creatures, if they happened upon a shadow crossing, passed into the Material Plane, and wielded their fraction of the Dark against any creature they found. 

Any creature *"bathed in the Light"*, or otherwise originating from the Material Plane, brings with it an aura of blinding light. This aura is visible to the Material creature, and especially visible to creatures from the Shadowfell. As observed in the ECLIPSE campaign, dousing oneself in Darkness balances out this effect. Similarly, any creature *"bathed in the Dark"*, or otherwise originating from the Shadowfell, brings with it an aura of concealing darkness. It is worth noting that the relative spell levels of Light and Darkness as known in the Material Plane, are inverted in the Shadowfell -- it's easier to create light in the plane of Light, and vice versa. No such relationship has been observed in the Realm of Chaos.
## Axis
The Shadowfell, at the time of its conception, was a fragment of the Material Plane that was sent into Tyria's abdomen. It was geographically identical to the Material, but by the time of the Solstice, the landscape had changed. Over centuries split away from the Material and into the darkness within Tyria, the Shadowfell eroded. Organic life quickly withered away without light; tectonic shockwaves splintered and dusted most every building; sinister beasts roamed the land, taking out anything else that was left. From these ashes, only one city rose: Axis. Mania, thrust into the Shadowfell, moved rapidly to establish a safehold, and found security in E'Lenora.

The nascent Shadowfell, just barely split from the Material, was hardly different from its originator. As time went on, the Shadowfell demanded more, and more from Axis, and forced Mania to construct more, and more to defend it. Mania dug trenches, wove spikes, built walls, and cleared trees, all in the name of surviving. The Shadowfell seemed to adapt, sending carnivorous worms on the rain, blowing in walls of dust for years on end, challenging Mania time, and time again. For centuries, Mania built, and rebuilt Axis against the tides of evil that splashed on her walls. Eventually, Axis grew to a size she could not maintain on her own. Mania developed the Axiomites, a series of remote-controllable automaton that could do the hard labor for her, as well as ward off the Shadowfell. Mania eventually rigged each Axiomite to a complete schedule, as sort of recollection of society.

Axis, just prior to the Solstice, is a sprawling metropolis of unnavigable roads, claustrophobic building fronts, and an undeniable lack of vision. Where E'Lenora, Axis' de facto sister city, (or, perhaps mother city,) is bare and unassuming by virtue of choosing function over form, Axis is unimaginative, built from half-baked plans spawned from inexperience. The streets of Axis twist like tangled hairs blocking a drain, endless loops that are only usable if every single citizen were operated by a singular, hive mind. The buildings are bare and devoid of personality, bearing the appearance and apparent direction of a toddler imagining Asteria; the over-tall walls surrounding Axis speak to a distinct paranoia, that only an isolated madwoman would have. The roads confuse any attackers; tall artillery scrape the skies, defying the wind's reach; walls, so shear and pristine as to defy any climber; hordes of Axiomites -- her eyes and ears, and spears, and shields.
## Solstice and the Shadowfell
Following the Solstice, the Shadowfell is merged into the Material Plane in all its putrid glory. Similarly to the synchronous-merging of the Realm of Chaos, the injection of the Shadowfell brought many changes to the Material: all non-overlapping, intentionally-made structures; the entirety of Axis; every creature, made to compete with its Light-borne counterpart; a portion of the Dark, torn through Tyria. The most immediate change was at E'Lenora.

E'Lenora, following the Solstice, is instantly surrounded by the metropolistical nightmare of Axis. The elves of E'Lenora, at that point, suffer a hostile takeover by Mania and her Axiomites. While some E'Lenorans managed to flee, most E'Lenorans were taken by surprise -- trapped within Axis' over-tall walls, surrounded by remote-controlled murder machines -- now subject to Mania. 

Otherwise, some of the Shadowfell overlapped the Material. Dark stains on Tyria's history reappear necroticized; the meetings of humans and elves at Solva, and the village of Hollowfall pre-Deimos Tenebris, to name a few. 

Appointees of the Light repel the reach of the Dark, by decree of their god, Qatar Altan. Parallel, re-purposed Soldiers of Strife defend the downtrodden, and operate under the banner of the Eternal Blades, led blade-first by Agnar Lightbringer. For years, resistance ramps up to meet the Dark, with some continents finding more success than others. Revanon, between the Eternal Blades, Qatar's will, Mania's Axiomites, Asteria's many armies of many houses, vying for the throne, was fairly well-covered. On Solva, the warring states of Dawnguard and Elkmire each mustered a Dark-oppositional force with ease; the Black Rose Company pivot off of Unseen repellant to focus on defending her people. Basti, all the while already crippled by Rox' influence, threatened to succumb into shadow amidst a religious crisis, a monarchic crisis of validity, and the hemorrhaging of the land. The hole Wraeclast occupied opened directly into the Dark, shining a light on the civilizations once-happily isolated. Influences from Chaos randomly altered a few of the dementors of the Dark. 
## History
Prior to the ETERNITY campaign, a young [[Deimos Tenebris]] unknowingly opened portals to the Dark, through which the Shadowfell poured through. This event eradicated [[Hollowfall]], killed Deimos' brother, Phobos Tenebris, and caused Deimos to undergo a mental breakdown stressful enough, that it shattered his psyche into two: one, the fearful, skittish Deimos; one, the protective, collected Phobos.

Following the ETERNITY campaign, Phobos was suffering a life-threatening ailment that no conventional medicine salved. Ambrose Tenebris, upon hearing of Phobos' plight, understood that Phobos, as a shade, was suffering from extended separation from his brother. Ambrose guided Deimos, together with a dying Phobos to a shadow crossing at a grave near La Escuela de la Montanha. Within a crypt between planes, Ambrose guided Deimos through the process of destroying Phobos, then consuming him. Deimos was successful.

In the ECLIPSE campaign, the party enter the Shadowfell via a shadow crossing in Amsa. En route to Axis, they are observed by Mania, seemingly paranoid about their arrival. While in Axis, they seek counsel with Mania, before leaving Axis due east for the home of the prophet, Roxidor.

In the Eclipsed timeline, the Shadowfell is never merged back into the Material Plane. It remains as a bastion of the Dark across the planes, though restrained from influencing the other planes as a result of the Shattering. The Shadowfell continues to float gently away from the Material Plane, eventually beyond Tyria's sight and influence, ever deeper 'nto the Aether. 

In the Solsticed timeline, the SOLSTICE party enter the Shadowfell at Axis, after killing Damian Ashborne. Inside, they sought counsel with Mania as they once did in the Eclipsed timeline, but also clog up her elevator. Parallel, one of Tangmazu, the trickster's clones of Dimitri attempted to gauge the status of Axis.