#ETERNITY 

Following the defeat of Tangmazu, the trickster by the hands of the joint-party of Dreamwalkers and SOLSTICE, [[Dante du Fleur]] initiated the Solstice. The Solstice is a realm-shaping event involving the usage of all 3 Tears of Tyria, melded into a single, omni-tear named [[Eternity]]; the sacrifice of Dante's existence to the Void; and the reformation of the [[Prime Material Plane]]. The Solstice marked a number of vast, sweeping changes in the lands of Tyria, and would be substantive and globally effective enough to become the new starting point at which history was recorded.

The Material Plane, Realm of Chaos, and the Shadowfell were merged together at the site where Pharasma, the inevitable one shattered them into 3. In the heart of E'Lenora, Tangmazu, the trickster allowed the joint parties to enter the Shattered wasteland, the growing divide between the 3 planes, in an attempt to gather the Tears of Tyria for his own gain. Once Tangmazu was defeated, the Tear of Life fell into SOLSTICE x Dreamwalker's hands. Together, with ETERNITY's Tear of Time and Tear of Space, Dante would meld the 3 Tears of Tyria into Eternity, using Iron Fist Alexander as a mixing vessel. The combination of the Tears of Tyria, anti-magic oils, and stabilizing alchemical agents resulted in a substance so corrosive, that Alexander was melted away with it, possibly imbuing Eternity with his essentia.

Dante would then implore Tyria to aid him in reforging the Prime Material Plane, and Tyria listened. Dante, communing with Tyria, wished on Eternity for the planes to be "as they were originally intended", healing the damage done by Pharasma at E'Lenora, and beginning the Solstice.

The 3 planes, no longer separated by icy tundra following Qatar Altan's succession as god of the Light, began to meld into one another again. The Shattered wasteland shrank, and with it, Tyrus Terim, and Tyria were collected. Tyria would return to her place as a foundation to the lands of Tyria, while Tyrus recuperates on Tyria, aiming to return Agnar's request for an honorable duel.

Dante, at Tyria's behest, was sent directly into the Void with Eternity. Dante knew that such a power would be seductive to the mortals of Tyria, and deigned to have them tempt mortals no longer. Dante now floats, aimless yet triumphant, through the Void -- never to be reaped by Death, but never to enjoy his life.