#ETERNITY

Arachnis is a splinter group formed from the remnants of the [[Weave]] after the Weave's destruction by [[Eternos]]. Arachnis was founded by [[Nero du Fleur-Donati]], the adopted son of the Weave's explosives and alchemical expert, Dante du Fleur. Arachnis fills in the gap that the Weave's death left in underside [[Amsa]]. The "weave", for which the former gang was named, was an intractable network of laypeople who served as the eyes and ears of the Weave. Arachnis, immediately following the Solstice, worked towards the recreation of that soft power that the Weave held. By investing coin into local underground business, lending favors with a promise not to cash them, aiding the Amsan civil guard in the defense against the encroaching Shadowfell, and generally building trust in the locals, Arachnis aims to reclaim what the Weave lost.

> *"Arachnis. The spider that comes for revenge after finding its home destroyed."* 
> - Nero, former Weaver, founder of Arachnis

The founding members of Arachnis were those members of the Weave who were graciously not killed during Eternos' raid. This being true, Arachnis' spirit is tainted with the guilt from surviving such destruction; its motive, explicit actions, and direction all reflect the group's mutual, harrowing past. As such, underside Amsa has noticed a remarkable difference between Arachnis in its current state, and the Weave just before it was destroyed. Arachis proudly touts around the very weapons that the Weave produced, largely in the defense of areas they consider theirs. This peacocking has a chilling effect on local members of the oppositional Eternos, as well as members of the Amsan civil guard. Individual members of either military force are less likely to stake their claim over Arachnis-owned land, if a team of armed Arachnis members are waiting nearby. 

Alongside Arachnis' visible defending of their people, Arachnis operates using a much more aggressive negotiating pattern with both locals, and the opposition, as compared to the Weave. While favors like escorting and protection are given to locals without recourse, any inch given to Eternos or Amsa are demanded back with interest. Each shadow-borne creature that's blasted back into the legs of Amsa, carries a cost to the civil guard. Each Eternos member that is fished out of a sticky situation with the civil guard, owes Arachnis then on. Gone are the days of the Weave's passive approach to growth under the Outfit and Eternos. 
## History
Following the conclusion of the SOLSTICE campaign, Arachnis founder Nero du Fleur-Donati returned to a devastated Amsa. With the Outfit long dead, and Eternos having been crippled by Dante's parting gift, Nero struck at the opportunity to regrow the Weave, and staked a claim over Amsa's underside.

Back at Amsa, Nero manages to recapture 22 surviving, willing members of the Weave, and brought them to the Agency of Time's former headquarters. Under generous funding from Ambrose Tenebris, Nero secured rations, beds, medicine, and armaments for the remaining Weavers. After licking their wounds, Nero took a subset of Arachnis to the Weave's old headquarters to bury their dead, and mourn their losses. Once the Weave's dead were mourned, Arachnis was galvanized in their purpose, and begun their long work forging power in the underside of Amsa.