#REAVE #SUNDER

The Black Rose Company is an armed guild of adventurers stationed in and across [[Solva]] dedicated to the defense of her people. The Company operates rather benevolently, only taking in payments as needed to sustain the Company's operating costs, which include: rent for their guildhouses, food and water, armaments, and more. As an organization, the Company requires monthly dues from each of its members, and in return, offers members the following: access to the guild's assignment boards; access to guild-only connections to smithies, leatherworkers, and other artisans; and access to guild-only lodging, free of charge across Solva.

The Black Rose Company's headquarters are located in [[Baveil]]. The original location of the Black Rose Company's HQ was underneath Blackwater's *Blackwater tavern*, but a run-in with Rox forced the Company to temporarily relocate to Baveil. The Company has since considered the Blackwater location to be permanently compromised, and as of the Solstice, have redoubled efforts to make permanent the Baveil HQ. The headquarters serve as an archive for the completed and incomplete tasks taken up by the Company, a staging ground for established leadership, and a home for piles, upon piles of loose paperwork.

In the REAVE campaign, the Black Rose Company retained and gave guidance to the party of REAVE in their conquest against Kalarel, the vile. [[Shay Servius]], a mercenary and leader within the Company, offered payment to REAVE on behalf of the Black Rose, in exchange for their aid in stopping Kalarel.

The Black Rose's support of Shay's personal investigation into the Unseen led him initially to Baveil, then to REAVE. This meeting would ultimately result in Rox' imprisonment of Shay, who kept his mouth sealed. Rox held Shay as a prisoner and hostage against the Black Rose, up until Rox met his demise at the hands of the Dreamwalkers of Basti.

In the SUNDER campaign, the Black Rose made a reappearance in the defense of Solva against the Unseen. Shay, recently freed from captivity, was pursuing a lead on Sophia Atkinson of Brisban, suspecting her of taking on bribes and financial support from the Unseen. The party of SUNDER crossed paths with Shay after they assassinated the Atkinson, where Shay then convinced them to betray their employer and side with the Black Rose. From there, SUNDER operated with the Black Rose to aid the Queen of Solva in her defense against the Unseen. 

The Black Rose's mission is ongoing. Following the Solstice, the need for defense against malicious actors has only grown. Threats from the Shadowfell have been merged with the Material Plane, resulting in a wildlife that is far more dangerous than it was in the years prior. In response, the Black Rose has been given credence and financial support from the citizenry of Solva, in the form of subsidized food and drink, artisanal donations, and the multitudinous creative offerings of the people. The Queen of Solva, and the parliament under her, have not offered the Black Rose any aid in their mission. Regardless, through crowdfunding and particularly efficient work, the Company continues their mission to protect Solva and her people against threats from within, and without.