---
tags:
  - ETERNITY
---
The Ja'Almawt are a nomadic tribe of [[Vinovia|Vinovians]] who carry their lengthy history within their oral tradition. In their infancy, the Ja'Almawt faced an early extinction when Brudeli soldiers invaded Hasha; the scholars of the would-be Ja'Almawt were still coalescing. Their premature end would be averted by one [[Isko Kidar]], a Calistrian, who felt their deaths would be a great injustice to the health of Hashan society. Explaining his involvement, Isko spoke at length about the importance of the Ja'Almawt's preservation efforts, and gave praise to the scholars for "daring to remember". After their safety was secured, the Ja'Almawt would carry on Isko's words, and commit themselves to an oral tradition that would carry on the stories of the past through the sands of time.

The Ja'Almawt are devout followers of the [[Light]], and are granted druidic powers in return. A magical set of gloves, the [[Hands of the Covenant]], were developed in order to aid lesser-abled Ja'Almawti's in the control of their powers. Select few Ja'Almawti's are able to form telepathic bonds with small, spore-like creatures, through which they are able to mend, attack, and defend against threats to the tribe. [[Qatar Altan]], one such telepathically-inclined Ja'Almawti, showed significant prowess with telepathic powers early on, evolving to harness the powers of the Light even without aid.

In their infancy, the Ja'Almawt would prove, at best, fallible, when it came to accurately preserving history. Once-sheltered scholars, then-novices of the sands, most of the Ja'Almawti's energy early on was spent staying alive. Ferocious sand wurms, threats from the Dark, thundering clouds, and vast stretches of arid desert constantly threatened the Ja'Almawt. Using their bank of knowledge, the Ja'Almawt were able to figure out the sands, but not without major losses. Within the first generation of Ja'Almawti's on the sands, an estimated 40% of their population were lost, and with them, great swathes of history.

This uncertainty, loss of life, and general tumult were the circumstances which Tangmazu, the trickster used to inject false stories about two new gods of Tyria: Lunaris and Solaris. Tangmazu, disguised as a surviving Hashan refugee, came to the Ja'Almawt with stories about the spats that Lunaris and Solaris had as mortal sisters of Hasha, telling falsehoods painting the two sisters as enemies. Within a single generation, Tangmazu twisted the tale of the Dancing Sisters into a tale of the Dueling Sisters.

Once the Ja'Almawt learned to thrive in the sands of Vinovia, their oral tradition became an unshakeable repository of truth, resistant to the kinds of lies spread by Tangmazu early on. A deep sense of community was fostered in the Ja'Almawt across generations, transforming the original band of resistant scholars into an oratorial band of nomads. 

Following the Solstice, Isko Kidar shed his former Calistrian identity, and fully embraced the role of Loid Altan, father of the god Qatar.

The ascension of Qatar to god of the Light thrust the Ja'Almawt onto the world stage. Bolstered by the support of their god, and placed in opposition to the shadow that was tainting Tyria, the Ja'Almawt transformed from a reclusive, nomadic tribe, to a cleansing light against the forces of shadow. Qatar, by holy decree, blessed small groups and individuals with his guidance, sending them forth to *"bring Light to Evil wherever they go"*. So long as these groups remain in vigilant contact with Qatar, they retain their blessing, and thus, their command over the raw power of the Light.