---
tags:
  - ETERNITY
---
VINOVIA is an anthology compiling [[Emi R. Tas]]' study of [[Vinovia]], organized into 7 individual books, each with another letter of "Vinovia" printed on its spine. [[Qatar]] discovered a copy of VINOVIA with the second "I" book missing from its collection. The following recounts Qatar's experience searching through the books for information concerning the [[Ja'Almawt]], and anything about a man known by the name "Isko".

---

This is a partially complete anthology written by Emi R. Tas, who has taken an incredibly detailed look into much of the existence and ephemera of Vinovia. *Many* of the pages in this very dense collection are dedicated to extremely detailed descriptions of plant life. You estimate a strong 90% of the book is dedicated to the minutia of animal biology and plant characteristics. A few passages:
- "Fossil rosids are known from the Cretaceous period. Magistrate clock estimates, using the prevalent aetheric background radiation of such fossils date the existence of the monophyletic rosid to hundreds of millions of moons ago. The continued existence of the rosid clade is of particular note..."
- "... mainly consists of seeds, but also pollen, leaves, stems, flowers. It extends back to the Cretaceous period."

It takes quite a while for you to locate any information that is of any relevance to your purposes. You first discover an anthropologic description of what appears to be Ja'Almawt. You find many small details that are, frankly, shocking discoveries to you. 
- You learn that Kadir is nothing more than a name passed on between leaders of the tribe, and that this honor is paid for by replacing your original identity. There's a note from the author about this: "It appears that the nomadic Ja'Almawt treat the identity of the leader like that of their own travelling habits - free to move with the winds, and erased by the sands of time."
- It is stated that the Ja'Almawt's Kadir are bestowed with a blessing from the previous Kadir, typically in the event that the last Kadir has fallen gravely ill, or in premonition of a death. The author notes that they "have no sightings nor information on such a token, or power".
	- This may strike you as particularly revealing, as you may or may not have heard of such a sigil, mark, or token being passed down. How the author even knows this is beyond you.
- You continue to read. You find short, biographical descriptions of some of the Kadir in the past. There seems to be no real through-line in how Kadir are selected: there are an equal number of masc/fem presenting, the combative nature of the Kadir are stretched from the most passive to the most warmongering, and the policies that the Kadir choose to enact are incredibly flexible.
- As you flip through the biographies, you are stopped by one particular entry. One of the biographies instantly catches your eye; it feels like a thousand pins poke into your skin at once. A sketch is on the page, and its a somewhat crude, hand-drawn depiction of a Kadir from ages past. It's you.
	- This entry is more sparse than the more recent entries. Whether by time or by secrecy, many gaps exist in this person's history. The listed name is [[Isko Kidar]].
	- The author procured a transcription from a preserved clay tablet, which describes Isko's behavior. Isko was a rather reserved individual, choosing to delegate responsibilities whenever possible, and choosing to avoid confrontation, whether that be interpersonal or tribal. The tablet describes Isko not as a meek, weak-willed figurehead, but rather as a scholar who sought to revitalize the Ja'Almawt. 
	- The author notes that the period of Isko's position as Kadir was rife with onslaught from the wilds and threats from Brudel. In the Ja'Almawt's darkest hour, pressed on all sides by bloodthirsty animals and warriors, Isko communed with the then-ruler of the Hashan empire, Anton. You also note that Tas seems to break the professional voice they've kept up so far, as the writing gets a bit softer and nicer towards Isko.
	- Anton absorbed the Ja'Almawt for an extended period of time. They were allowed sanctuary into their lands, and placed under their protection against Brudel. In return, Isko would act as a scholar for the Hashan people, enriching their citizens with his works and teaching the Hashan people the rich history of the Ja'Almawt.
	- Isko would pass the Kadir onto Abdul Altir, a more militaristic-minded man who worked to re-secure a land for the Ja'Almawt. Tas describes Isko as the "single most influential politician in the existence of the Ja'Almawt".
	- Tas includes an additional note. They mention that Isko would go on to study Vinovian history, concerning himself with the people of the past, the civilizations that once were, and all the races that walked the land. Tas included a citation to further reading, but searching for the citation reveals a gap in the anthology.