---
tags:
  - ETERNITY
---
*A small sheaf of papers pinned to the wall in Safar's office catches your eye. As Dr. Safar attended to the rest of the party, you found an opportunity to leaf through the pages in waiting. The pages appear to be an unsent letter from Dr. Safar to an old, unnamed colleague. In between Dr. Safar's colorful commentary on the state of [[Corcoran Laboratory]], the following excerpts from his handwritten notes stand out to you:*

...in short, *shattering* is the violent rapturing of a creature's soul into irreparable shards of the self. Through cursory trials, *shattering* can be certainly attempted on any number of Tyria's creatures, but results are highly one-sided; most animals, flora, inanimate objects, and "typical" test subjects perish. 

*What follows is a particularly harrowing set of sketches, presumably by Dr. Safar's hand. There are a set of 4 images below the text, with each image depicting different remains of test subjects. The first two depict a bear, and crow, both flat on their side, body and head limp on the test bed. No outward injury appears to have been sustained, yet both the bear and crow corpses notably have their appendages twisted, as if snapped like a twig beneath a giant's foot.*

*The third image takes you more time to process. The branches of an adolescent spruce tree stand bare, with a carpet of pine fallen beneath it. Much of the tree bark has been damaged in the process it seems, as many of the arms of the tree are snapped, severed, or otherwise fallen off. The fourth image is a closer inspection of the tree's bark. The trunk, which has been surprisingly well-detailed, appears entirely normal, save one, critical aberration. A chunk of the bark seems skewed, almost as if the tree had been sliced through, twisted off-center, and then jarringly re-attached.*

...not included in my depictions are the countless number of humanoid subjects that have endured Dimitri's experimental trials. As a scientist, I would be remiss if I were not to keep my own record of *shattering's* effect on more cognizant creatures. As an anthropologist, I would be doubly so if I were not to document these peoples' lives. However, as your former colleague, I wish to sustain the candor of our relationship by sparing you from the gruesome, and frankly, depressing details surrounding some of these subjects...

...Before we part, I would share some details of one of the more interesting cases we've studied thus far. It was a dim, windy evening in the breakroom, when Dimitri storms in, as is natural of the man. He calls for Blaze and I, signaling to us that he's got another humanoid to invert in his *shattering* trials. We, tragically, tear ourselves from our delicious lunches, and carry ourselves to whatever it is that he deems "vital" to mission success, and so "imperative" that we aid him in.

Our subject for the afternoon was a remarkably well-dressed man with a red earring, in a terribly dire situation. Dimitri, whom I've told you, is largely happy to sit back as we carry out all the hard work for him, seems to have taken the time out of his day to restrain the poor chap for us. In fact, I daresay I spotted an uncharacteristic bead of sweat on our administrator's forehead! I'm sure you would have detested the man as much as our previous admin, he does nothing but pore over and criticize our work without so much as lifting a finger to perform it his self. 

The things we do for an honest living.

The subject was clearly in distress. He appeared to be confused, wondering constantly where he was. I tried to explain that we were on Amsa, a moving city shielded by illusory walls, and that he was in Corcoran Laboratories. He had a skin tone similar to that of the native Vinovian tribes, but did not seem of this land. His eyes widened, either in panic or shock, and resisted his binds even harder. I can still see those pale, orange eyes through his disheveled mop of white hair. I've not seen such desperation in a person since... well, I've not seen such desperation.

Dimitri quickly took control the situation. He turned to us, and bid us to prepare another *shattering* event; loathe as I am to admit, we obeyed. In honesty, Gundogan, I write to you in hopes that you can understand my pain, wherever you are now. Watching Dimitri tear subject after subject from their livelihoods, commanding us to run his tests on them, it is no more than wholesale slaughter of innocents. This is as much a science, as that shattered spruce I drew above, is yet a tree. 

The man cried out, yearning for escape as is natural, and is understandable. I could feel my own humanity dying within me, knowing that I am actively complicit in his fate. As I pen this very letter to you, I can hardly muster an ounce of sympathy for the man. I could do nothing but shuffle around the laboratory with Blaze, hooking this poor soul into our machines as Dimitri watched on with a steady eye.

It helped my conscious not, to learn that our subject was in desperate search of someone in this very city. His flower, his reason for being, he said. One who he'd travel to the ends of the Planes for, and make graves of the gods to find. I could only watch as Dimitri attended to the final steps of *shattering*.

...what ensued was rather, well, spectacular! In contrast to the abhorrent dilemma that this poor chap found himself in, was the results of the experiment. The man convulsed terribly for the half hour it took to saturate his bloodstream with charged aetherfluid, before he was reduced to nothing but a twitching mess. Blaze hovered the overload dial, grimacing as he prepared himself for another messy cadaver. As he spun the dial, however, the man began to stabilize.

*Another sketch is added here. It seems to depict a dramatized recreation of the subject's shattering. Blaze, Dr. Safar, and Dimitri watch in apprehension, all staring at the man. The subject, with deeply tan skin and white hair, appears to be elevated a few inches into the air. Test needles, plungers, and shackles tether the man to the ground. Dr. Safar sketched out a few lines protruding from the subject, in an attempt to emulate light.*

Blaze began to panic, unsure of if he should proceed -- I was no more helpful, watching in awe as the subject began to glow brighter yet. Dimitri shoved us aside, and began to tamper with the machine. As the shaking grew worse, the shackles on his wrist produced an unholy cacophony; Dimitri kept ramping up the overload charge. Dimitri's eyes lit up like Solaris herself possessed the man, filled with an ecstatic hopefulness.

The man looked to be feeling the opposite of Dimitri. His pale, orange eyes filled with a deep terror, his tan skin quickly losing its tension and pallor. It all seemed to ratchet up endlessly, the chains writhing ever faster, the man's limbs twisting ever further, until it came to a jarring end. A corpse lay on the ground before Blaze and I, an all-too-familiar sight at this point, but Dimitri seemed undeterred. He dialed us into the reconnoitering room, and, after a brief input, began to search. To my amazement, the satellite surveyor began to indicate matching lifeforms, not on this Plane, but on others; one on the Plane of Flame, one in Celestia, one in Dweomerheart, you name it!

This discovery leaves me puzzling at the very nature of our consciousness, our existence. One shudders to imagine oneself cloned by Simulacra, let alone *shattered* like glass. I do hope we'll be able to speak more over drinks one day.

*The letter is yet unaddressed, and without sign-off.*