#ASCENSION #REAVE #ETERNITY #Dreamwalker 

Rox was a human turned demon's plaything, with identifiable, sapphire eyes. Typically, Rox covered his eyes with shaded specs, blindfolds, or other headgear so as to not draw attention to himself or his unique gems. Rox' eyes were surgically replaced with aetheric jewels by one [[Dialla]], a "scientist" in Highgate's Rosholm Caverns, as part of her pursuit solidified, distilled aether. These eyes, which preserved Rox' ability to see, also granted Rox the ability to manipulate the aether physically, allowing him to create temporary wormholes to cover large distances with ease. Rox used this ability, alongside his general martial prowess, to use and abuse the world around him.

According to documents retrieved from the [[Mirage City]], Rox worked as a coroner circa 181 AS, under the name 'Eaton Elsie'. The city's final paystub for Eaton during his tenure as a coroner is dated to the second Sacrato (Fri.) of Phreci (Oct.), that year. The pay went uncollected. That same Phreci (Oct.), Eaton made an appearance in Highgate's Chrysanthemum tavern, days prior to his participation in Dialla's experiment. Following Dialla's replacement of his eyes, Eaton discarded his name, and undertook the moniker, 'Rox'. 
## History
In the ASCENSION campaign, Rox appeared as a nameless carter, collecting dead bodies around Lioneye's Watch in exchange for coin. He made no further appearances. These bodies were stockpiled as part of a ritual to summon [[Kitava, the insatiable]].

In the REAVE campaign, Rox was found colluding with Kalarel, the vile, towards the ends of resurrecting Kitava. Rox was discovered by the party in an underground tomb, in the middle of his scavenging for bodies on the outskirts of Baveil. As the party continued to meddle in his affairs, Rox delivered an ultimatum to the party: leave, by dawn. Once the party had shown they were not leaving until they push their lead on Kalarel, Rox ambushed their contact, Shay Servius. In the confusion that spawned from this close-quarters hostage situation, Rox took on an illusion to appear as Shay. Pivotally, Aux Chord was Suggested by Rox to misdirect his party, resulting in the party's surrender of the wrong Shay, leading to the capture of the real Shay. Later, following the party's intervention at Vin Arbor, and the resistance they mounted beside the Black Rose Company, Rox would later wordlessly abandon both Kalarel, and release Shay.

Following the REAVE campaign, Rox died. The cause of death is unknown, but is assumedly due to his involvement with the Dark rituals required to summon Kitava to the Material. While Rox was in the Boneyard, he struck a deal with the devil [[Lars]], who promised him a second chance at life and the strength to achieve what he wanted, in exchange for his immortal soul. After landing back in the Material at Basti's Mirage City, Rox immediately began work towards the creation of the early [[Vykem]], an anti-religious cult of personality dedicated to Rox' invisible usurpation of monarchic power in Mayhausen Keep. Rox made immediate use of Lars' gift, and slowly entreated the early Vykem to long-term brainwashing. 

Prior to the ETERNITY campaign, after Tangmazu, the trickster learned of Rox and Kalarel's success at initiating the return of Kitava, Tangmazu offered Rox a heightening of his powers in exchange for his help. In agreement, Rox positioned himself as the head of the agency, the [[Agency of Time]], towards the ends of acquiring the Tear of Time. Through the Agency, Rox made contact with the alchemist [[Jethro]], and fellow Unseen [[Lucia]]; Lars tagged along. Together, the Agency worked towards the location of the Tear of Time, eventually uncovering Tangmazu's discreet recruitment of Anton Essa, and Anton's intention to scour the birthplace of the Tear of Time.

In the ETERNITY campaign, Rox appeared to the party at Agrizi as Empyrian, after receiving word that Anton Essa had successfully entered Hasha. Rox had learned of the party's parallel success at entering Hasha's ruins, and offered his aid to the party in locating Anton. Rox recognized Anton's intent to keep the Tear for himself, and under the guise of the Agency of Time, declared that they were working towards absolving this temporal anomaly. During ETERNITY, Rox provided (modest) aid to the party in tracking down Anton. 

All the while in Basti, the Vykem had begun to establish themselves as a force to be reckoned with. Under hallucination by Rox, whom himself was under direction from the [[Unseen]], the Vykem became exceptionally effective at manipulating the tenuously religious into following them, strong-arming local municipalities into ignoring their work, and acquiring key contributors who could offer riches and services, in exchange for their safety. Vykem, under Rox, carved out great chunks of Basti's land and peoples into servitude to Rox. 

In the Dreamwalker campaign, Rox appeared to the party in a series of dreams, typically taking on a more angelic, embellished form. The Dreamwalkers were spirited away to Basti from the streets of Amsa under Tangmazu's aid, and subjugated by Rox' hallucinations. Under Rox' illusions, the Dreamwalkers were tricked into eliminating peaceful civilians showing early resistance to Rox, and coerced into acquiring and delivering Lunaris' Moonstone to Mayhausen Keep. Contrary to Rox' and Tangmazu's plans however, the Dreamwalkers overcame the illusion, and broke free from their chains. Rox did too little, too late in response to the Dreamwalkers' independence, and for that, would pay.

In the ETERNITY campaign, when the party confronted Anton Essa at the Epiphany, Rox was simultaneously being threatened by the Dreamwalkers at Mayhausen Keep. Rox made the decision to abandon the Tear of Time and Tangmazu's initiative, to instead pursue his own business overseas. Immediately following the death of Anton, ETERNITY noticed Rox' absence, and proceeded to harass Rox for their pay. Upon their insistence on seeing Rox and getting paid their worth, Rox gave his final correspondence with ETERNITY: a series of instructions to access their payment, and passage of a verbal deed to the Agency of Time's HQ.

At the end of the Dreamwalker campaign, Rox appeared to the Dreamwalkers with a final plea: hand over Lunaris' Moonstone, and be done with these troubles. The Dreamwalkers declined, and made their stand against Rox. Despite Rox' adornment of aether, his contract with Lars, and backing from Tangmazu, the Dreamwalkers prevailed, and Rox died again. Rox' immortal soul was then immediately swept up by Lars once in the Boneyard, who possesses his soul to this day. Rox' prized eyes were gouged out of its sockets, rendering him truly blind. Rox is made to serve tea to Lars at the Epiphany, and clean the blood that leaks from his eye sockets, evermore.