---
tags:
  - ETERNITY
---
The Boneyard is a plane formed as an intermediary between the twin afterlives in [[Celestia]] and [[Alethia]]. The Boneyard is a finite cavern of lava-spouts, colossal stalactites, and impish swarms, walled off by volcanic, red rock. The Boneyard is an intermediary between fallen mortals and the afterlives, claiming to be an intermediate step for soul to "ensure everyone gets the ending they deserve". Created by [[Asmodeus]], the Boneyard is a home to devils and demons, joined under the mission of processing every fallen mortal soul, and taking out their "cut", or souls deemed unfit for neither Celestia nor Alethia. 

Upon death, any mortal that doesn't have a strong affinity for either Celestia or Alethia is sent to the Boneyard. Mortals that are sent to the Boneyard after death are definitionally average, neither having the socio-physical impact of the Remembered, nor the abject forgettability of the Forgotten. While in the Boneyard, a mortal's life is weighed "objectively" by the devils and demons in attendance, who search through their history for despicable crimes worthy of demonhood, unclaimed *serment* of their soul to a devil(s), and/or lasting damnation from a godly entity. Additionally, the devils and demons who process fallen mortal souls put forth a proffer to the indebted, and those with incomplete work, promising the completion or absolution of their debt in exchange for their immortal soul. While the scheme and fundamental structure of the Boneyard is amoral, the devils and demons within the Boneyard can generally be trusted to uphold their word -- to the letter of the law.

The Boneyard draws its power, and its ability to siphon souls from the Prime Material Plane into itself, from the joint agreement that the contingent devils and demons are under. The Boneyard has existed as early as 8,000 BS, far before Alethia had been formed by Pharasma, the inevitable. The devils and demons of the time, in agreement that they could siphon more souls as a unit, banded together in the Underdark. This agreement would grow and blossom into the corporate entity that the Boneyard houses, growing the Boneyard itself into its own plane, separate from the Underdark and the Material.

The Boneyard is a sprawling cavern, littered with lava-spouts, colossal stalactites, and impish swarms. Dotted across the landscape are small houses of lesser demons and devils, alongside just as many ruins. The Boneyard is encased in a volcanic, red rock, with a ceiling that reaches beyond its cloud layer. The walls are porous, filled with creepy crawlies and parasitic leeches, intent on feasting upon mortals who deign escape. Across the Boneyard are dirt roads, leading any who follow them to the processing sites that the denizens use to process mortals. 

In THE HELL ONE SHOT, a team of plucky adventurers plummeted through a hole in the ground to get into the Boneyard: Kuasi, a quaggan slowly suffocating without water, Lilium, a changeling who would later work for the Boneyard, Myar, a fire genasi intrigued by the Boneyard, and Irix, a changeling disguised as a dragonborn all delved into the Boneyard. In the oneshot, the party spent a considerable amount of time divining the solution to enter the Boneyard, and summarily got lost in the Boneyard. Each of the constituent members of the party remain in the Boneyard to this day, with Lilium in particular joining the ranks of the devils and demons who operate the Boneyard's mortal soul-crunching machine.

In the ECLIPSE campaign, Agnar Lightbringer and Iron Fist Alexander were sent into the Boneyard following the collapse of the Border Ethereal around ECLIPSE. There, Agnar discovered he could not leave the Boneyard to either afterlife; found Tirion in the process of reviving after killing him in defense of Selûne, the enervate; and cracked a deal with Pharasma for his return to the Material.