Death was the name of the creature with dominion over death prior to [[Pharasma, the inevitable]]'s conquest of that domain. While very few today have met with Death, a number of independent, historical recounts of near-Death experiences refer to the same, or similar form of, Death. Most recollections of Death come from individuals who have been Returned, by magical or clerical means, from the domain of Death. Their recollections join the secondhand accounts of Death, to form the following description of Death.
- Death, when it appeared to the dying, typically assumed the form of the dying's ancestry; "for since the creation of the world, \[Its\] invisible attributes, \[Its\] eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly seen, being understood through what has been made, so that they are without excuse."
- Death typically wears cultural garb, or whatever is considered socially-appropriate wear for the situation in which the dying is in. Paintings from the time of the Eternal Empire depict Death as wearing similar garb to the servants of the throne.
- While it is common for Death to share in the form of the dying, in some cases, Death appears as that which the dying cared for the most. Famed cat-lover King Totah of Hasha was described, in his last moments, to be "reaching out towards nothing, as he had once always for his own \[cat\]." Totah died after his cat, Sufyan.
- In the cases of large-scale battles, or the widespread elimination of peoples, Death instead appeared as a darkened sky, still winds, or otherwise halted the motion of nature. In writings about the moments before the Brudel siege of Hasha, archivist Haji Baz wrote, "the stars above stood, with bated breath, watching. It felt as if life could not exist the day after today, for there would be no more to carry it."
- Death is rarely presented to be taking the initiative in propagating death. In recounting experiences with Death, most note primarily the distance in which Death waits away. However, most note an inability to draw one's attention away from Death, citing an "imminent strangeness."

Death is assumed to have died at the hands of Pharasma. 