#ETERNITY 

Tangmazu was a trickster deity from [[Calistria]], who became bored of his life of memories, and sought to play tricks on a fresher realm. Descending unto the Prime Material Plane, Tangmazu fooled with the mortals of Tyria by spreading lies about their gods, assuming the role of an already-untrustworthy wizard, and helping malicious individuals achieve their goals, and sow chaos.

Tangmazu was instrumental in controlling the narrative around the denizens of Calistria in the Material Plane, subtly influencing the stories told about the gods and their relationships, and even spawning a myth about [[Lunaris]] and [[Solaris]] that remains to this day. Tangmazu, early on in his bout for power, began to spread the lie that Lunaris and Solaris were tricked by him to fight endlessly against each other. Tangmazu claimed that the story about the Dancing Sisters went as follows:

*The Dancing Sisters, borne of the Light, scattered across Calistria in song and rhythm. Their lashing twirls, and fervent kicks spread the Light across Tyria, and danced across their skies. Then, one fateful eve, the dastardly Tangmazu made to spoil their splendor. With his snake-tongue and cunning ways, Tangmazu told but half the truth to Solaris in private, and made her believe she was the sole inheritor of the Light. It was her lashing arms, her beauty in dance, that lit up Tyria. Flattered, but not convinced, Solaris disregarded Tangmazu, but never spoke of him.*

*Months after his first lie was planted, Solaris had become more purposeful in her movement, more independent of her sister's dance, behaving more importantly than her sister. It was subtle, but for Lunaris, it was clear. Then, Tangmazu approached Lunaris. He told but half the truth to Lunaris in private, and made her believe that Solaris believed she, the Sun, were the sole inheritor of the Light.*

*Mere confirmation was all Lunaris needed. Their song and dance became blade and battle, each seeking to prove to the other that they, not she, were possessing of the Light. Their battle stretches across the skies to day, waxing and waning as each gains the upper hand.*

After centuries of propagating that specific story, followers of the Light splintered into two distinct sects: one in worship of Lunaris, and one in worship of Solaris. The most notable religious leaders in the worship of Lunaris or Solaris found homes in Mayhausen Keep, and Dawnguard. The prayer, worship, and even sacrifices made in the name of Lunaris against Solaris, and Solaris against Lunaris, amplified the virulent powers of the individual gods. The ensuing frenetic worship resulted in a fragile balance of power, one kept in balance by the very deities who were said to be fighting. Tangmazu used their focus on keeping the Light in balance as a distraction to acquire the [[Tear of Life]]. 

It is not known exactly when Tangmazu overpowered Dimitri and his clones. All that is known is that Tangmazu routed [[Dimitri]] after the fall of Hasha. Tangmazu would replace the organic heart each of Dimitri's simulacra, with one wrought of iron, granting him control over their thoughts and emotions. Tangmazu would use this control to spread his influence across Revanon, maintain relationships and lies, and remain untraceable.

Tangmazu would then use the Tear of Life to bolster Dimitri's simulacra. His Dimitris, which were no more than clay simulacra of the wizard, could handle only so much magic. With the Tear of Life at his disposal, Tangmazu forged life-like clones of Dimitri that would be capable of harnessing greater magics; could sustain brutal physical augmentations; or even harness some of Tangmazu's illusory talents.

Following the events of ETERNITY, Tangmazu, feeling frustrated at [[Anton Essa]]'s failure, called upon the lives of those touched by the [[Tear of Time]]. This would place the party of ETERNITY into a temporal bubble, recounting the experiences they had across their journey thus far. In the midst of this experience, Agnar Lightbringer would see Tangmazu observing them through the mist veil he had constructed, and flew towards him. The party of ETERNITY followed, but Deimos, who had no ability to fly at that time, would need to be carried by Agnar. As a result, Agnar brought Deimos closer and closer to Tangmazu, whose mere possession of the Tear of Life was enough to knock Deimos unconscious. When Agnar came close enough to the mysterious, pale figure that they would later identify as Dimitri, Tangmazu reached out and clawed Deimos from his mortal flesh, leaving Phobos behind to rot in a mismatched body.

Tangmazu would meet his end in the [[Shattered wasteland]] at the hands of the joint parties of SOLSTICE and Dreamwalker. Overcome by their sheer combative superiority, Tangmazu died an unruly death, just shy of his plans for planar domination.