---
tags:
---
"Animalfolk" is an umbrella term capturing all humanoid creatures who bear resemblance on a sliding scale to animals. The term animalfolk strongly encompasses some ancestries like rabbitfolk, lizardfolk, turtlefolk, and catfolk (known to some as the "Tabaxi"), and weakly encompasses other ancestries like centaurs, and tengu. The application of the term animalfolk draws ire from those more prideful creatures; it is hence advisable to take care when addressing the likes of centaurs and tengu as "animalfolk". The term animalfolk generally excludes shape-changing ancestries, such as the kitsune, and those whose ancestries are linked directly to dragons, like kobolds.

To be animalfolk in non-animalfolk society, is to be ostracized. Human society, like those in [[Asteria]] or [[Dawnguard]], tend to view animalfolk as base and wild creatures, with characteristics matching those that Asterians or Dawnguardians ascribe their matching animal. It is not uncommon for turtlefolk to be perceived as universally slow and uncoordinated, nor is it uncommon for rabbitfolk to be perceived as naïve. Elven society, like those within Tyria's Root or Elkmire, view animalfolk as hardly more than slightly-smarter versions of their base animal, treating animalfolk with the same respect and candor as their matching animal. Both examples of non-animalfolk society tend to disregard, ignore, or flat out deny access to their society's laws, benefits, and financial participation in institutions. 
## Origin of Animalfolk
The ancestral source of the animalfolk is a perplexing topic for evolutionary researchers and exotic anthropologists alike. While some have speculated that animalfolk are necessarily the result of a union between the matching animal and a humanoid, neither proof nor evidence supporting this claim have been documented. Field research on the topic is strongly looked down upon. Ebontide-based anthropologist Sahirah Salib claims that animalfolk are "evolutionary aberrations" spawned by magical or chaotic influence. Salib continues that, "...the presence of wild magicks focused on a single animals' habitation can... create the likes of animalfok \[sic.\]."
## Notable Animalfolk
- [[Ashton]] is a rabbitfolk ranger residing in [[Amsa]], whose presence in the civil guard serves to combat Amsans' preconceived notions of rabbitfolk.