---
tags:
---
Axiomites are a collection of automata constructed out of desperation by [[Mania]] during her imprisonment in the [[Shadowfell]]. Axiomites range severely in form and function, serving any purpose between deterring shadow-borne creatures with hazardous weaponry, to assisting Mania in the mundane construction of [[Axis]]. Early Axiomites were constructed out of the remnants of the [[Hill]], the very device used to banish Mania into the Shadowfell. Modern Axiomites are still built with a small chunk of the Hill's hammer. The precise effects of the Hill's rubble on Axiomite functioning is unknown.
## Form and Function
Axiomites' designs draw heavily from the desperation that Mania was under during her initial landing in the Shadowfell. Early on, a simple design that Mania employed involved a chunk of concrete with a propeller fan bolted onto it. This propeller gave the concrete chunk a surprising amount of aerial stability, and allowed the concrete chunk to be thrown rather accurately from a great height. This design, a concrete ball with a propeller, would evolve into the "spotters", metal balls with propellers that could fly, observe, and alert other Axiomites of foreign invasion.

Axiomites, upon creation and at any moment, are given a set of instructions with which to follow. These instructions can be as simple as "attack foreign creatures within a given region", to as complex as simulating industrial society. Indeed, across the centuries spent trapped within the Shadowfell, Mania has woven an untold number of Axiomites into a functioning society of Axiomites. This society has been observed to replicate societal functions such as healthcare/maintenance, deathcare, reproduction, construction, and militant organization.
## Axiomites and the Solstice
Following the [[Solstice]], Mania's Axis was transported atop E'Lenora. Since then, Axiomites have been found to gain sentience, typically necessitating direct reprogramming on Mania's part. However, Axiomites clever enough to escape Mania's Axis undetected have been able to make contact with civilization on Revanon, transferring their knowledge about Mania's Axis to greater Tyria. The source of Axiomite sentience is unknown. Whether or not Axiomites are truly sentient, or represent more advanced programming on Mania's part, is similarly unknown.