#ETERNITY 

Erdogan Eilric is a half-elf half-human sorcerer, who would, weeks after his run-in with the party of ETERNITY, commit himself to a pact under [[Cassandra Lumen]]. Erdogan is a scholar of [[La Escuela de la Montanha]], who used the resources available to him to research the history and chemical properties of a particular genus of leaves gifted to him by ETERNITY. Erdogan came across ETERNITY in [[Kilhan]] in his traveling hut; he initially approached the party believing Signus to be a different Tabaxi named Orsos. After briefly clearing up the confusion, Erdogan was gifted a small bundle of dried leaves.

Erdogan has since managed to cultivate the dried leaves that were gifted to him, successfully planting them, and growing new shoots from the earth. Erdogan discovered that the leaves impart a bitter, nutty aroma into water when boiled, and later discovered that the resulting leaf-water has stimulating properties. He would later note that, following drinking the leaf-water, is a "period of restlessness -- not of anxiety, but literal. Without rest."

Erdogan would find that the increased stimulation caused by the leaf-water was a consistent, predictable effect of drinking it, and began to abuse it. His studies, his socializing, and his relaxation, would all be tinted by that muddy brown juice. Overnight, Erdogan developed a fixation on that plant and its juice, incorporating it deeply into his routine and diet. He would become restless, indeed -- reading late into the quiet hours, appearing at every mixer, non-stop participating in field research, and seemingly always having something to say. The half-elf seemed to avoid meditating at night to clear his mind, and, seemed to avoid resting long at all.

Following the events of ETERNITY, [[Phobos Tenebris]], in a dire strait, would be discovered by Erdogan during another brief stint in Kilhan. Feeling responsibility for Phobos, Erdogan attempted to stabilize Phobos at la Escuela, until Ambrose Tenebris, with Deimos, arrived. Erdogan let them be soon after.

Erdogan's fixation on the leaves would become obsession. One snowy night after the Solstice, Erdogan looked to the skies, and saw a second moon: Dweomerheart. Assuming its denizens to be godly, and consumed by a yearning to explore this new world, Erdogan prayed to Dweomerheart for "the powers needed to chart this new world". Lumen obliged. Erdogan was granted divination abilities far beyond what la Escuela was willing to impart unto him, and the magical flexibility needed to utilize them. With this, Erdogan would sever his ties with la Escuela, and traveled Revanon alone, juggling spells between his sorcerous blood, and his pact-bound hands. He was determined to spread the leaves like gospel -- all, under the guise of "research".