---
tags:
  - Dreamwalker
  - ETERNITY
---
Mayhausen Keep (my-house-en) is a castle town built within [[Teardrop Lake]]. The Keep's creation was spearheaded by Sondra of the Moon in the early 300s, who cleared out the area as a pivotal claim in the holy wars of Basti. Mayhausen Keep's storied purpose as a bastion to believers in [[Lunaris]]' superiority is detailed through salvaged memos and paintings strewn about the castle's walls. While the blood of battles ages past have since dried on the castle's foundations, Mayhausen Keep continues to be an epicenter of religious zealotry, and theistic redoubt.
## History
During the Dreamwalker campaign, Mayhausen Keep operated under a lordship, and was ruled by King Hall and his lineage. Prior to the Dreamwalker campaign, Rox infiltrated and mind-controlled the King, enabling him to operate without intervention from the King's arm.

In the Eclipsed timeline, just after the Eclipse, Lunaris descended upon the Keep in a fire of rage and fury. The denizens of Mayhausen, shocked at the ferocity and source of the attack, were summarily obliterated. While many fell, some survived; [[Princess Eupheria]] counts among the survivors. With Rox gone, the Dreamwalkers were seen as the perpetrators of the Eclipse, and were imprisoned in casings of ice by Lunaris for their crimes. They were stored in Mayhausen prison. Later, the party of ETERNITY would free the Dreamwalkers from their encasement, enabling Nox to then take the Tear of Time from Time's Keeper, Agnar. This confluence spawned the Solsticed timeline.

Mayhausen was then turned into a stronghold for Lunaris to stage future attacks on the mortals who killed her sister, before her being executed by the party of ECLIPSE. Mayhausen was never resettled.

In the Solsticed timeline, the Dreamwalkers of Basti resisted the forces that would have had them offer Lunaris' Moonstone to Lunaris, in turn kicking off a chain of events that enabled the Solstice. Following the Dreamwalkers escape of Mayhausen and rendezvous with the SOLSTICE party, Mayhausen Keep was sent into a frenetic inquisition, one that was resisted by the denizens of the Keep.

Once Rox fell, the curse and hold that he had on King Hall fell, and brought the mad king came to his senses. At the same time, the escape of the Dreamwalkers inspired the denizens of the Keep to rise against the tyrannical rule that Rox imposed via King Hall. This culminated in a series of violent uprisings which cost ~10% of the souls on either side of the rule, ending after months of battle, in the year 634. The result, was the dispensation of King Hall, the removal of his political tools, his loyal servants, his knights, all rejected from the Keep. 

Its citizens managed to sustain themselves through continued trade and the motions of life, and splintered into 3 distinct factions. In one gathering, diehard believers of Tangmazu, the trickster's lie about Lunaris, who saw her imminent victory in her battle with Solaris, believe that the Dreamwalkers' excursion from Mayhausen was a sin representing the people of Basti, for which all must pay. In another gathering, a Light-worshipping branch of Mayhausen formed consisting of those who believe Mania's heresy concerning the Dancing Sisters. In the final gathering, an agnostic sect of Mayhausen grew, consisting of those who are done with the whole thing, and want to be left alone.