Bastilite is an alloy of bastilium, a mineral found exclusively on [[Basti]], iron, and carbon. This composition results in a bastilium-doped steel, which boasts the heightened strength and fracture resistance of steel, and the aetherically resonant properties of bastilium. Bastilium is most known for its ability to resonate and produce large amplitudes of aetheric waves. Because of its high tensile strength and magical utility, bastilium is one of the most widely imported goods in the world. Bastilium is used in: magical tools, such as the tips of drills built to destroy abjurative barriers, or smithing hammers built to forge and maintain the likes of the [[Warforged]] and the [[Axiomites]]; barrier wards, like the mirage surrounding [[Amsa]]; castle infrastructure as decorative reinforcement; aetheric-electrical appliances, like home-assistance automatons; and weapons of war.

The most common smelting technique for bastilite involves production from bloomery furnaces, a metallurgical furnace used to smelt iron from its oxides. Bloomeries produce a porous mass of iron and slag called a bloom. The mix of slag and iron in the bloom, termed sponge iron, is usually consolidated further forged into wrought iron. Using irons with a higher carbon composition, bastilite smelteries can produce a much stronger, more resilient metal to be doped with bastilium.

Bastilite is the primary export of Basti's trade markets, taking up well over 40% of the entire continent's trading volume. Possession over bastilium mines is considered paramount to the fiscal success and survival of any one Bastian society. The usage of bastilium in early Bastian civilization also suggests bastilium is of religious import. Many a life has been lost fighting for the [[Baratrum Peaks]], considered by the Bast to be the most lucrative mine of bastilium in all of Basti.