A god, demi-god, or godling, is any creature who gains power through the thoughts and desires of others. While worship is the most popular method of granting powers to a god, simply occupying the respect of mortals to you is enough. Tangmazu, the trickster, for instance, gains dominance over illusory magics by propagating numerous lies about his origin. While the masses may understand that there's only one right origin story for Tangmazu, the fact that many believe Tangmazu to be an eccentric-enough figure is enough. His popularity, the way people talk about Tangmazu, and subsequently think about Tangmazu, and the effects that Tangmazu has had on the stories that are told, all grant Tangmazu his illusory powers.

Gods can be overwhelmed by their worship. Cassandra Lumen of Dweomerheart was so annoyed by the presence of scholar's wishes and thoughts in her mind, that she created an entirely different method of communion for individuals to speak with her. She fashioned Lumen's Blight, a tree that would enable individuals to speak to her directly, and hid it away on Pavo Perilos. Lumen had hoped that opening this method of communication and closing direct links to herself would bring her peace to focus, but fate would find otherwise. Dante du Fleur would eventually obtain a small sapling of the Blight as a gift for completing her puzzle on Pavo Perilos, and later, Pavo Perilos would come crashing down to Vinovia, leaving the Blight free to spread.

In the Eclipsed timeline, zealots of Mayhausen Keep prayed for the victory of [[Lunaris]] over [[Solaris]]. Their fervor was tamed, for a time, by a lack of evidence indicating that either side was winning in this imagined battle of theirs. When Rox, in death, was successful in delivering Lunaris' Moonstone to her altar, this sparked a sharp rise in worship to Lunaris. The will of the people, their desire to see Solaris dead, overpowered Lunaris' love of her sister, and killed Solaris.

In the Solsticed timeline, Qatar Altan became the god of the Light, replacing his mother, Selûne, the enervate. When the Shadowfell began showing its presence in the Prime Material Plane, people started to worship Qatar in greater, and more desperate numbers. This increases the relative sway Qatar has over Tyria at large, but so too, increases the burden that he carries.

Kitava, the god of hunger of Wraeclast, was emboldened by worship to him by cultists like Kalarel, the vile. Following the complete flooding of Wraeclast after the Solstice, Kitava's starving hordes would be washed from Tyria, leaving Kitava out to starve.

Lastly, a creature does not need to be worshipped in order to achieve god-like abilities. While doing things like granting blessings, intervening from impossible distances, and giving directions to the lost are certainly popular, they are not required of a creature with realm-shaping ideals. Eliza Khione of the Eclipse, through sheer force of will, wrested Lunaris' Moonstone to close a rift to the Realm of Chaos. Nox of the Dreamwalkers, having been gifted the Tear of Time by Keeper Agnar, started an entirely new timeline, wiping his and his company's regrets at Mayhausen Keep. Anton Essa used the aforementioned Tear of Time to hatch numerous temporal bubbles across Vinovia. The creation and usage of potent magical items can allow any creature access to the powers of unfettered godliness.