#Dreamwalker 

When the Dreamwalkers were kidnapped, and the original members of the [[Vykem]] were brainwashed, they were placed under Manahaze. Manahaze is a dreamlike, fantastical hallucination that causes affected creatures to experience an alternate reality. Manahazed creatures perceive the world around them to be idealistically fantastical, and themselves, to be ardent, similarly fantastical heroes. The term "Manahaze" originates from one standout characteristic of the hallucination: Manahazed creatures comprehend magic as functioning by using an alternate fundamental force, known as "mana". [[Rox]] developed and utilized Manahaze to keep the Wykin under his control, and attempted to similarly utilize Manahaze to subjugate the Dreamwalkers.

As mentioned, Manahaze causes creatures placed under it to perceive an entirely different reality than non-Manahazed creatures. As observed: swathes of innocuous villagers may become vicious tides of blood-thirsty zombies; individually-large trees may be beacons of the evil Dragon King; oppressive elves may be heroic soldiers keeping the peace; oppressed orcs may become dogs in need of training, and leashing. 
## Applications and removal
The Wykin, (otherwise known as the yet-brainwashed Vykem,) were taken by surprise, and placed under Manahaze by Rox. The application process is unknown, but Rox identified the Wykin as the "Branded", hinting at a physical mark that identifies the Manahazed. The Wykin acted independently on their visions, truly believing themselves to be ardent defenders of Basti and her people. Infamously, Rox had no role in directly instructing the Wykin; their heinous actions in reality were theirs', and theirs' alone. In reality, of course, the Wykin were fooled into exacting Rox' will; the injured and oppressed see reality differently. The aforementioned elves and orcs, viewed as peacekeepers and dogs, were placed into their present power roles by the Wykin; the halflings that service Salt Harbor, were displaced into Salt Harbor by the Wykin. No matter the full-hearted intent behind the Wykin's blades, their actions were that of Rox' design.

Wykin freed themselves from Manahaze by sitting in a patch of anti-hallucinatory earth within the [[Tymfros Range]]. Within Tymfros, was a glade of "strange plants... laid upon enchanted soil", which acted as a natural neutralizing agent against long-term, hallucinatory effects like Manahaze. The Dreamwalkers freed themselves from Manahaze by brutalizing Rox beyond recognition. Upon Rox' death in the heart of Mayhausen Keep, all remaining Manahazed creatures were freed from their hallucinations at once. It is believed that all Manahazed creatures have been liberated, and that the ability to apply Manahaze, as well as the knowledge required to apply Manahaze, has been wiped from Tyria.