#ETERNITY 

E'Lenora is an occupied elven city originally constructed as scaffolding in support of the Hill. The Hill was built by [[Pharasma, the inevitable]] in the decade leading up to the [[Shattering]], and was subsequently abandoned by Pharasma once her goal had been achieved. Later, industrial-minded elves split from [[Tyria's Root]], and came across E'Lenora in the year 163 AS. From 163 AS till the Solstice in 633 AS, the elves of E'Lenora maintained the Hill, studied the philosophy of engineering, and became artisans of gears and machines. In the years leading up to the Solstice, beginning in ~600 AS, [[Mania]] experimented on E'Lenorans with a system that would enable remote control of Axiomites. Following the Solstice, Mania returned to E'Lenora from the Shadowfell, and promptly enslaved the E'Lenorans by use of brute force.

Pharasma's choice to construct the Hill where she did was no mere accident. Pharasma, in a concerted effort to bring about the circumstances necessary for her to take power, searched for the Prime Material's most vulnerable location. This location, whether Pharasma was or was not aware at the time, is the predicted epicenter of aetheric waves propagating across the aether. These standing waves, detectable across Tyria and deep into the annals of space, are the remnants of a singularly massive, magical explosion theorized to be the spark that created the universe. The strongest piece of evidence arguing for Pharasma's awareness of this centrality, is the fact that the hammer of the Hill is constructed directly above this epicenter, within an error of 5m.

E'Lenora's construction, and its lasting architecture, speak to a city made for a purpose. The buildings of E'Lenora are fashioned out of rock and stone, square and rectangular prisms reminiscent of cubic pyrite. Unlike its crystalline counterpart, the buildings of E'Lenora are perfectly level, delicately calculated for their contributions to the Hill's structural integrity and functioning. At the time of its construction, 100% of buildings were constructed in support of the Hill; once the elves began to settle E'Lenora, only a rough ~66% of buildings were considered essential to operation.

Prior to the ECLIPSE campaign, Auntie, leader of the criminal weapons dealer in Amsa, the Weave, overheard a conversation between an anonymous Eternos leader and an assumed clone of Dimitri. This conversation revealed the importance of E'Lenora to Tangmazu, the trickster through cryptic conversation about "the elves". Auntie would later vanish from the Weave, leaving only a clue about "the elves" to the party of ECLIPSE, sending them on their journey to E'Lenora.

In the Eclipsed timeline, Selûne, the enervate appeared in a clearing near E'Lenora just after the Eclipse. In the Border Ethereal, Selûne sacrificed herself to maintain the ecological conditions under which life on Tyria had thrived. Tirion, of the Soldiers of Strife noticed, and deigned to slay Selûne, a crime for which the party of ECLIPSE killed him.

Following their slaying of Tirion, the party of ECLIPSE unknowingly utilized E'Lenora's unique position to leave the Border Ethereal. As the Deep Ethereal closed in on ECLIPSE, Dante destroyed the tether within his Slate of Distant Letters, and used the space-like vial of Mistborn Essence to send ECLIPSE across the planes. Curiously, the party was split into 3 groups, scattered about the planes of the afterlife: Alethia, Celestia, and the Boneyard.

In the Solsticed timeline, Selûne makes no such defense. E'Lenora, at the end of ECLIPSE's involvement in the Eclipsed timeline, is declared as the meeting point for the Dreamwalkers and the party of ECLIPSE.