---
tags:
  - ETERNITY
---
The Soldiers of Strife were an isolated group of knights, who vowed to war under their god, [[Tyrus, the warbringer]]. The Soldiers are Strife are many things: a training ground for merciless killing machines; a brotherhood of tight, rigid norms; an exporter of highly advanced, tactical advisors; the site of [[Agnar Lightbringer]]'s uprising. The history of the Soldiers of Strife is one of posthumous servitude, to a state long-fallen, to a god since departed, and to a treasonous warbishop. 

The Soldiers' roots date back centuries, to the Brudel's invasion of the city-state, Hasha. The Soldiers were an army of heavily armored knights, instructed to raid the throne room of King Anton. Tyrus, after landing the killing blow on the King, managed to lead his army out of the resulting temporal bubble before it encased all inhabitants. After confirming that Brudel was too damaged to recover, and that their enemy had been well and truly annihilated, Tyrus led his men off of Vinovia's sands, and into the mountains of the [[Vardousia Range]]. In his eyes, this war was over, and there would be no home to return to. Outwardly, Tyrus told his men that they needed to flee, to avoid suspicion, and to eventually return to Brudel.

Tyrus began drills in the mountainous snow of Vardousia. As years passed, it became abundantly clear that neither of the warring states would ever return, throwing the future of the Soldiers into question: what use was an army with no leader?

Tyrus found his answer in the eyes of his men, and in his own upbringing. Tyrus remarks, in a series of letters to the then-dead Brudeli legionnaire, Teremun: *"...it is a deep, automatic state that these men find themselves unto, within the trials and courses for which I set out for them... it is this, this profound sense of belonging, in a place where he does not belong, that brings these men peace in uncertainty."* 

Tyrus, in later remarks, stated that it was Teremun's earlier "guidance and friendship" with Tyrus that led him to understand the mental state of his men. With an understanding of what was needed for the Brudeli army to survive spiritually, Tyrus began to shape the Soldiers.

The Soldiers operated extrajudicially, recognizing neither leader nor country. They vowed to remain isolated, only falling into contact with the outer world if necessity demanded it. The Soldiers followed abstinence by rule, were never to leave the mountains of Vardousia, and were made to adhere to the orthodoxy Tyrus defined. Should they break their vow to Tyrus, they were to be punished, executed, or worse, excommunicated.

The routine of the Soldiers was an unending loop of drills, exercises, and survival. From the earliest show of light, to the final chirps of birds, the Soldiers were made to cut and haul lumber, spar till bruising and exhaustion, till and maintain their mountainous, snowy farms, hunt snow leopards and snow bears for sustenance, and hold each other up to those rigid set of norms. Their nights were as grand as their days were difficult; the Soldiers indulged upon the one thing in which Vardousia is well-fit to produce: alcohol.

The scorning of Agnar Lightbringer, and the rise of [[Damian Ashborne]] as a warbishop of the Soldiers, marks the beginning of the end. In his early influence as a leader, Damian claimed to have a direct connection with Tyrus, who had since parted ways with the Soldiers. Damian stated that his will is divine, that he had a direct claim to lead the Soldiers, and punished those who defied his order. 

Ashborne's Soldiers began to show global presence, by exporting some of the most tactically, strategically gifted Soldiers to the likes of Solva. Damian operated this Soldier-exporting for the express purpose of "furthering our neighbor's agenda", and to honor the will and decree of the god of conflicts. Damian used the presence of Soldiers in country military as proof that he was enacting the will of Tyrus. Damian's selection of exported Soldier shows a leader who wished to quell dissent before it was even voiced, electing to remove, by force, any Soldier who was savvy enough to challenge his rule. Inadvertently, Damian would end up defying the very rule of conflict that he claimed to follow, as the Soldiers he excommunicated would unanimously push for a defensive stance in their region's conflicts. By spreading his opponents across the lands of Tyria, Damian instead spread advocates for peace against conflict.

As Damian strengthened his grip on the Soldiers, his presence as a prominent leader became known to Tangmazu, the trickster. Recognizing what strength Damian wielded, Tangmazu struck a deal with Damian: In return for the complete conquering and command of the hearts of Soldiers, Damian would brutalize the civilians of E'Lenora. Damian, naturally, accepted.

Tangmazu worked with Damian across a decade to implant iron hearts within the chests of the most loyal Soldiers, inducting only a few, pliable Soldiers at a time. These iron hearts were connected inextricably, by the work of the Tear of Life, to the heart of Damian Ashborne. Once Damian had accrued an army mighty enough to oppose any potential defense Mania could produce for E'Lenora, Tangmazu sent him into action. Damian claimed that he had been personally contacted by Asteria, and that they wished for the fall of E'Lenora. He stated that, in the interest of his god, he would lead a cavalcade of righteous fury to E'Lenora, and reward the decisive movements of Asteria.

Damian Ashborne and his heartbound Soldiers would meet their ultimate end by the hands of the party of SOLSTICE, at E'Lenora. Agnar, spotting the man with which his wife cheated on him, pushed for the combined forces of the Dreamwalkers and SOLSTICE to quash him. Upon his death, Damian Ashborne's connection to the enslaved Soldiers was broken, and the Soldiers were freed. Some shed their armor, betrayed by the society that had raised them, others commit suicide upon realizing the destruction they had wrought on the innocent, others yet returned to Vardousia, later to pledge loyalty to Agnar.

Following the Solstice, Soldiers of Strife were taken under the wing of Agnar Lightbringer. The former Soldiers, recognizing the right of might, surrendered to Agnar's will, and fully dissolved the brotherhood of arms. In their place, the [[Eternal Blades]] would come to stand.