#SOULREND 

Lunti is a jungle-based city built on the remains of Sarn, the gladiatorial city. Lunti is a mostly anarchic civilization, brought to order by [[Gladius Silvermoon]], who formed the Gawin and Tawod. The Gawin brings law to Lunti, and the Tawod brings order. Lunti manages to survive thanks to post-Eclipse agricultural advancements made by [[Rubia Silvermoon]], and thrives thanks to involvement from [[Mileina]].

Lunti's Gawin are the small selection of people deemed fit to determine what should be allowed and not allowed within Lunti's borders. On top of their litigation, the Gawin are often expected to host numerous community events, such as feasts, parties, and other gatherings, to both spread word of their rulings, and to keep the community healthy. The Gawin are elected into their position by the will of their people, often hosting a gathering of their own to showcase their involvement in municipal proceedings. A civilian needs momentum behind them, and support from existing chairs of the Gawin, to be accepted into the Gawin.

The Tawod are civilians, often trained, who work in tandem with the Gawin, and seek to spread harmony in Lunti's ranks. The Tawod are not a militant arm of the Gawin, as all civilians are expected to be capable with arms post-Eclipse, but rather, a third-party capable of defusing conflicts before they arise. Much of the issues that the Tawod deal with are events that are hard to litigate, A-B conflicts that wouldn't be solved with easily-memorable laws, and spats between parties that are extrajudicial, and threaten to turn to violence. The Tawod are anyone who claim, and can prove themselves to be, Tawod. A member of the Tawod, then, could be anyone on the street, keeping an ear out to help maintain the peace.

For at least 2 generations, the Gawin-Tawod system has kept Lunti population-neutral at a minimum, and has even seen population growth in later years. The jungle city relies on its citizens to be well-trained, to be able to trust each other, and to be able to lean on each other when trouble comes to their doors. Thanks to the relatively sparse population of Lunti, the trust-based government from which it functions, has remained. 