#ETERNITY #Dreamwalker

# An Excerpt from the Lives of the Triad
*Cassandra Lumen, patron saint of Research and Discovery*

---

[[Dante du Fleur]], first to his name, has existed in this world for as long as he can remember. He had always strived to achieve greatness in his alchemical abilities, and his lifelong research accumulated to a form of liquid immortality. His success is what led to his failure as to him it was a great achievement in the world of life and magic, but he unknowingly spat on the gods of vitality and banishment. Oh the gods were wrathful in their punishment as he was granted immortality yes, but at the cost of forever roaming the mortal realm as a creature close to undeath, starving for the flesh of their fellows like a predator would feast on prey. For the first many years in this new body he unleashed carnage on the nomadic tribes, terrorized cities, and slaughtered many a traveler roaming the then empty vasts of the land. When his consciousness gained dominion over insatiable hunger, he awakened to a dark time filled with fear of the creatures that lay in the night and feed on the flesh and life blood of others. Ashamed, Dante rid his identity and exiled himself to the furthest reaches of the land, aimlessly wandering and hoping that the god of death may take pity on his arrogance and take him from the plane. However, his pleas would be in vain as his life no longer belonged to any god, as such is the curse of blasphemous immortality. His hollow soul now exists in the limbo where none dare to deliver, as it has been marked as void. 

The humanoid consciousness was never designed to hold an infinite amount of memories, thus after several millennia of wandering, the lone figure had fallen into madness. Visions of past and present figures overlay on another as each day the struggle to remember one’s name became the battle to remember one’s face and further devolved into the despair of not even recognizing one’s existence. It dissociates between innumerable stretches of time that cause it to slowly waste away, isolated from any other being in both physical and spiritual sense. It dissolves into nothing as the mind cannot cope, and as the low embers of final thought begin melting into the deep, the slightest touch of another being soothes its unending feeling of non-existence for the first time since it has become nothing. 

Hallowed life blood enters it as the first sensations of physicality return to the body. There exists the frigid coolness of undeath, but the warmth of another filling his core begins to reawaken the dormant organs that lie. He feels the gentle pressure of his mind being carefully pieced together as if by a master of reconstructed pottery. Not even the slightest glimpse of a passing thought is lost, as he is now able to think again without the colliding voices of not his own previously flooding his consciousness. He tastes the pulse of another’s blood as his tongue awakens. It is ambrosia: water to dry foliage, clothing soaking up liquid, wine emptying from a decanter, sun after an unforgiving winter, and life filling his veins. He feels the touch of foreign feeling against his scalp (though a part of him almost remembers…). It cards through his hair as the gnawing hunger finally lets him control his limbs. Hands relax from their clenched state as unbalanced hands reach for this warmth. His eyes awaken before he does as soft light fills his vision. Was he finally granted the peace he so yearned for many a millennia? The sensation of gravity and elevation increasing mark the end of his current mind as the rest recovers once more. The final whispers reach his ears as he succumbs to slumber: “Dante. What a beautiful soul it is, like the flower you are…”

---

> *The gods are just, the gods are infinite, and the gods are law.*
> *The gods are just, the gods are infinite, and the gods are law.*
> *The gods are just, the gods are infinite, and the gods are law.*

Words continue to pour out of the lips from [[Manetto Donati]] as he gently holds the prone body beneath him. There was naught but thin skin and frail bones then, but now lies a man. A beautiful man whose hair flows like liquid silver and skin shines of the white sun. The brief glimpse of eyes glistened jewels of alexandrite cut perfectly to refract the rays of ruby light. Yet the soul, oh the soul, it brings sorrow. Hurt like no other pulls on Manetto’s heart strings, but he mustn't reveal his emotions as the slightest waverance \[sic.\] from devotion shall alert even the lowliest of divine beings. Thus he must work in haste and revive Dante from his self-entombing. His ethereal wings take them both from the edge of the material world and into the emptiness between planes. Dante does not stir even once in his arms as if he is undeath, but his heart slowly begins to regain rhythm and order. Manetto takes them through many different realms: one that Dante is borne of, one that homes the souls of many roaming west of The Weave, and another where one can stride in the land of dreams. 

In a place only Manetto has discovered (being that he of very few were granted the power to exist outside of the many planes) he settles the body of Dante and begins to rebuild the shattered part of him that calls out to Manetto’s own, albeit, whole, radiant, soul. Such a tiny thing burdened with the weight of a force too great to hold it, no wonder that it could not withstand the pressure of the magic and memories. He feels the tug of his own grow as the jigsaw of shards begin to align. It is for naught as the vessel still will not, cannot contain itself, but Manetto knows that he must sacrifice a part of himself to revive Dante’s. In an act of great destruction, that of which is against the very laws of the space-time-weave, Manetto sacrifices the power of his own divinity to shatter his soul to rebuild both of theirs as one. His once ethereal wings blacken into shriveled ichor as the merging of two souls commence. Without divinity, Manetto with Dante are cast out from the pocket by the aether as it ripples and carries them into the nearest world: one where the inhabitants call it Tyria. 

---

[[Amsa]] was never a forgiving place as the constant hierarchy of the towering city feeds on the weak and grows the strong. Only those with power strive in such a wretched place, while others wallow in their own misery and filth. Nero has known this life as many other children and adolescents do in the dregs of their mobile livings. Thievery, assault, and murder are commonplace, and no one would help or even bat an eye; such is life they say, it was probably deserved they say.

What disgusting low lives. 

They should try to live even minutes feeling the aches of the body and unknown pains that reach even deep to the bones. The cold never leaves and the air feels stale and polluted in the lungs. It molds to the body unforgivingly like a brand that can never be flayed off, a parasite that burrows just under the skin but so far out of reach. *(There are days that Nero can almost convince himself that he ripped it out of his skin, but it always COMES. BACK.)*

Each and every day continues on from the last like an unending cycle of monotonous actions in an inescapable night terror. Defiance on the streets, suffering each day as the fodder are beaten and used to the amusement of others. Those who cannot steel themselves against the attacks slowly waste away until their bodies are kicked off the edge of the city into the sands below (sometimes the screams of brothers wail in the night as they cannot find a loved one). There are methods to ally with the walls of the city, but it comes with a price; any sort of safety always does. It matters not which branch seems more appealing, they are all the same. Work in exchange for basic necessities is no fair trade at all, but some would rather have an owner than none at all. Nero still has the marks of being such a fool. 

The fresh sanguine in his mouth was still wet and warm as he hovered over the body of the most hated man (if he could, Nero would gloat over his dying body till the end of days). The figure was bleeding out of his jugular as Nero spit out flesh from his jaws. Was the blood dripping down his body the man’s or his own? He could not tell as cold relief and fear coursed through his veins. There were sounds in the background through the walls, sounds of explosions, screams, and liquid spilling on the wooden floors. All of this muffled by the heartbeat in his ears. Dark fluid slowly seeped into the room from the cracks of the door and combined with the growing puddle already there from the fresh corpse. He stared at the flow. Even as the doors to the room were violently opened, there was no reaction from Nero. It was not until the silence persisted that he looked up at who he assumed to be his new captors. His mind blanked. 

---

It was like looking at a spitting image of himself. The long silvery hair against pale, almost white, skin. The accepting fear in his eyes, it hurt to look at what seemed like a reflection of himself, but younger (much too young to be having eyes and scars like those). Blood was covering most of his skin, but it did not take much to assume what had happened to the child. Without thinking, Dante took a step forward to try and console the small thing, but in an instant teeth latched onto his own neck. *(so that’s what that’s like…)*