#ETERNITY #WIP 

It's been a few years since you've taken the seat of god of the Light and issued a decree to your people: bear your Light across the darkness of the land. At first, you were busy confirming that yes, that is your will, and yes, you are offering your blessing in exchange for foot soldiers. A few followers called you Selûne, though that number's been going down over time. After the people caught on, they *caught on*. Hundreds, maybe even thousands of ardent believers in the Light came to you, beseeching your blessing. So many different kinds of people came forward. Small groups of untrained villagers stepped forth to defend their people against the tides of the Shadowfell; well-armed militias sought out your blessing to bolster their ranks; members of the Ja'Almawt began to make weekly communions with you just to stay in touch; people overseas begged you for your intervention in their own issues and quandaries. Nowadays, your days are filled with the prayers and tithes and humble requests and bargains and pleadings of your blessed followers. All of them seeking your guidance, your power, your divine will. Helping your followers became routine. It became habit.

It was a day, just like any other. The will of the people flowed through you, and you imparted that will upon those who needed it most. Then a prayer came in. It came in as a letter, delivered by a soft white dove. The dove landed softly on your shrine walls, gently cooing into the sharp air until you came by to pick it up. It read:

*My son,*

*I pray you enjoy Celestia's vast hills and glorious sunrises, Qatar. I had never been privy to the shrine in which Selûne alleged she stayed. And I doubt I will ever be. My time upon Tyria sheds faster with each coming day. I know not what you achieved in lands I cannot see, but I know one thing. Life's essence, once gifted in grief, now fades in a place none can be. And I know another thing. I know I have not been as present in your life as you had wished. I will not make excuses for myself, but rather, attempt to explain where I'm coming from. I will now try, as best I can, to pass on my tale, in penance and in pride. If you can find it in your heart to read on, to forgive your father his former failures, then I beseech you this now. Allow me to tell you the full story.*

*First, the Tears. I had tried to warn you against involving yourself in those jewels, luckily to no avail. Perhaps I was not warning you, as in yourself, but rather warning my past self, a previous me who was in a situation not unlike yours, at the time. Perhaps my regrets had bubbled up to the surface, unbeknownst to me at the time. I am still unsure. I am glad, ultimately, that you did not heed my warning, and did what you deemed right upon the world. But to say that our situations were perfectly aligned, were the same situation, is to say that history's greatest, are history's contrarians. That is to say, believing history is filled with people going against the grain, is the same as saying the sands are filled with pebbles. Lacking nuance. Aside the point. I had warned you against making, what I believed at the time to be, the same mistake as me. Pursuing lofty-minded goals without aim. Throwing yourself into the fray, only to find frayed relationships thereafter. Only to find that the people you had ventured into the fold alongside, had been altered forevermore by the very pursuit you had needlessly pursued. Only to find that your ambitions had grown out of depth, and those around you had paid the price.*

*My life began, fully formed, in Calistria. I had not memory of my previous life, but merely my personality and general air about me. My Calistrian self would have, and indeed, did assume that I was a playboy so venturous and successful, that I had earned my etching upon time evermore. My Vinovian self would not be so self-loving. I had only decided to toss my Calistrian self into the waiting jaws of the boneyard after what I had seen happen to Hasha. More specifically, I had only decided to sell my soul to the demons below, when I saw young Selûne being encroached upon by death. I know not, exactly, what provoked me to action, what stirred my heart so about Selûne's troupe of bookworms. I know not why I felt so moved by her idiotic choice to remain in Hasha, her painfully shortsighted vocality. All I know is that I could not remain. In a flash, I had tossed aside that comfortable life, and flung myself headfirst into the fold. I knew I was bartering life now for life never. I didn't care. I wasn't going to let her die. I forced them, the now-Ja'Almawt out of Hasha, before things went wrong. And oh, how wrong things went.*

*It started with Dimitri. He was the first person I made contact with in Hasha's system of "governance", and he verified for me how dire the situation was in Hasha, even if inadvertently. It was clear to me by then that Hasha was, indeed, sleepwalking straight towards its demise. I had intended to break things off with Hasha's officials after the Ja'Almawt had been rescued. I had not intended to be involved in their disastrous leadership any further. But Dimitri was a convincing person, always sounding like he had a plan, a way that things could be fixed. Even once Hasha had become engulfed in King Anton's death cry, Dimitri convinced me that everything could be fixed. That the Ja'Almawt could return to their home.*

*Your father,*
*Loid Altan*

*A last remark, your mother (Selûne, I mean) had always lambasted me for winding on too long, and going off on tangents and whatnot. I find it humorous then, upon reading this letter back, that I am forced to agree with her.*