---
tags:
  - ETERNITY
  - WIP
---
*My son,*

*I pray you enjoy Celestia's vast hills and glorious sunrises, Qatar. I had never been able to visit the shrine in which Selûne stayed. I doubt I ever will. My time upon Tyria wanes faster with each coming day. I know I have not been as present in your life as you had wished. I will not make excuses for myself, but rather, attempt to explain my absence. I will now try, as best I can, to pass on my tale, in penance and in pride. If you can find it in your heart to read on, to forgive your father his former failures, then I beseech you this now. Allow me to tell you the full story.*

*First, the Tears. I had tried to warn you against involving yourself in those jewels, luckily to no avail. Perhaps I was not warning you, as in yourself, but rather warning my past self, a previous me who was in a situation not unlike yours, at the time. Perhaps my regrets had bubbled up to the surface, unbeknownst to me at the time. I am still unsure. I am glad, ultimately, that you did not heed my warning, and did what you deemed right upon the world. But to say that our situations were perfectly aligned, were the same situation, is to say that history's greatest, are history's contrarians. That is to say, believing history is filled with people going against the grain, is the same as saying the sands are filled with pebbles. Lacking nuance. Aside the point. I had warned you against making, what I believed at the time to be, the same mistake as me. Pursuing lofty-minded goals without aim. Throwing yourself into the fray, only to find frayed relationships thereafter. Only to find that the people you had ventured into the fold alongside, had been altered forevermore by the very pursuit you had needlessly pursued. Only to find that your ambitions had grown out of depth, and those around you had paid the price.*

*My life began, fully formed, in Calistria. I had not memory of my previous life, but merely my personality and general air about me. My Calistrian self would have, and indeed, did assume that I was a playboy so venturous and successful, that I had earned my etching upon time evermore. My Vinovian self would not be so self-loving. I had only decided to toss my Calistrian self into the waiting jaws of the boneyard after what I had seen happen to Hasha. More specifically, I had only decided to sell my soul to the demons below, when I saw young Selûne being encroached upon by death. I know not, exactly, what provoked me to action, what stirred my heart so about Selûne's troupe of bookworms. I know not why I felt so moved by her idiotic choice to remain in Hasha, her painfully shortsighted vocality. All I know is that I could not remain. In a flash, I had tossed aside that comfortable life, and flung myself headfirst into the fold. I knew I was bartering life now for life never. I didn't care. I wasn't going to let her die. I forced them, the now-Ja'Almawt out of Hasha, before things went wrong. And oh, how wrong things went.*

*It started with Dimitri. He was the first person I made contact with in Hasha's system of "governance", and he verified for me how dire the situation was in Hasha, if inadvertently. It was immediately clear to me that Hasha was, indeed, run by inept fools with no discipline for governing thousands of Hashans, but that is neither here nor there. Dimitri, the one you now know as Pharasma, and the one you now know as Mania, were influential voices, and pivotal actors leading to Hasha's downfall. If ever you need to explain to a Calistrian why Hasha fell, you have three you may point to. If you wish to be as truthful as I may be on the matter, you may include my name in that list.*

*Your father,*
*Loid Altan*