---
tags:
  - BANE
---
As I approach Death's door and prepare myself to be entreated to this cycle of life and rebirth, I think upon my life and achievements, challenges, and shortcomings whole so that I may acquire a most complete picture of what I, in this life, have achieved. And in thinking on this, broaching this topic with honesty and clarity, information gleaned from the very public that I had the unique honor of ruling over, I reflect mostly, on a people. A people, that live short, fast lives, thrown headfirst into the wheelhouse nary a moment after their dawn; still weeping at cold Winter's touch, and already working. A people, whose life surround had been plagued, (by not only plague, but) a world envious whom we entreated, a people coveting whom we coveted, a threat just now setting upon our lands. What makes an Asterian? Is it the right of birth, upon Metrica lands- nay, what of a newborn elf, just laid from traveling elves, landing upon Asterian elves? Are they Asterian? What of a scoundrel, of Amsa or o'erseas, whomst possess'eth talents undeniably not Asterian: foul enginecraft, and wicked sinfulness? What are we to do of their talents, their unique, uniquely useful talents, are we to merely reject them for virtue (or lack thereof virtue) of being not-Asterian? What answers had but such simple answers, but spurned on much sulfurous talk. 'Tis a question, it seems, for the future people of Asteria. A lifelong still, and Asteria has no answer. What makes an Asterian? Why, being Asterian, of course! A people, who have themselves brought up arms to establish this country as country, its people as its people, and land, land. Asteria is not so seemingly, so as to not have a presence in the faces of its neighbors. Asteria is a country both prideful and fanatic, possessed by the twin devils of shame and penance. Asteria does not turn away from her most heinous of crimes, her savaging of the peaceful elves, her savaging of her very own. Asteria hardly sleeps at night, these days! Up banging, and banging on anvils, an endless rhythm rocking deep into the night. I see ye, ye bangers and bangers, forging sword and dagger and armor and Amt. Weapons and arms, and Solva's new charms. I am to be seeing Death at my age of 40. I have lived a bountiful life, of fortune forthright. If I am to be seeing Death so soon, and, as it would be, it appears so, then I shall do so with gratitude, and not sorrow. For life was a gift of sorrow and shame, I shall not welcome what welcomed hath brang. I face Death alone, and alone I shall know what futures, what mysteries, what new make to-day.

- [[King Radovan|Reshellah R.]]