The Aasimar are creatures blessed with power from above, granted to them by the gods of the stars. Carrying with them the blessing of [[Celestia]], Aasimar represent the divine realm, and are prophets of the mortal realm. Any sapient creature, from humans to kobolds, can become an Aasimar following their receiving of a blessing from a sufficiently-worshipped god. They are a people of otherworldly visages, with luminous features that reveal their celestial blessings.

An Aasimar, except for one who has turned away from their god, has a link to some angelic, godly, or otherwise powerful being. That being provides guidance to the Aasimar, far more often than all other devotees can expect. The guidance that an Aasimar receives can be as direct as a mental message, or as vague as visions, as prophecy, or dreams. Creatures are typically only blessed to be Aasimar thanks to their outstanding devotion to their god, or because that god wants a job to be done.

Messengers and prophets of the gods, the Aasimar are their hands and mouths -- and are expected to behave as such. An Aasimar who, for any number of reasons, decides to defy the word of their god, becomes a Fallen Aasimar. Fallen Aasimar sever their connection to their god, and are stripped of any powers or blessings they may have received. They are then cursed to walk the land scorned by their god, besmeared with a mark of their betrayal. These marks can be as simple as rusted skin, or eyes filled with soot; or as complex as a series of glyphs on their skin, unconcealable, revealing their betrayal to their god in full.

[[Damian Ashborne]] and [[Agnar Lightbringer]] are prime examples of an Aasimar, and a Fallen Aasimar, respectively. Agnar was blanketed by Tyrus' blessing prior to his duel with his homewrecker, Damian, but due to a combination of Agnar's lack of skill, and Tyrus' pitiful blessing, Agnar lost the duel. Enraged, Agnar swore off Tyrus' useless aid, broke his oath to the Soldiers of Strife, and stormed off an Oathbreaker, and Fallen Aasimar.

Damian, subsequently, presented his victory over Agnar as proof of his rightful position as Tyrus' chosen. Backed by the ravenous Soldiers who support his boastful claim to power, Tyrus supported Damian, and threw his might behind Damian's blade. It is worth noting, here, that Agnar and the party of SOLSTICE slew Damian, following Damian's coup of the Soldiers of Strife.