Animalfolk is an umbrella term capturing all relatively uncommon, humanoid creatures who bear resemblance to certain animals. The term animalfolk strongly encompasses ancestries like rabbitfolk, lizardfolk, turtlefolk, and catfolk (also known as the Tabaxi), and weakly encompasses other ancestries like centaurs, and tengu. Some of the more prideful ancestries, like the centaurs, tend to resent being classified under the same umbrella as ratfolk, while other ancestries tend to brush it off. Animalfolk as a term generally excludes shape changing ancestries, such as the kitsune, and those whose ancestries are linked to dragons, like kobolds.

To be animalfolk in non-animalfolk society, is to be ostracized. Human society, like those in [[Asteria]] or [[Dawnguard]], tend to view animalfolk as base and wild creatures. Elven society, like those within Tyria's Root or Elkmire, view animalfolk as hardly more than slightly-smarter versions of their base animal. Both examples of non-animalfolk society tend to disregard, ignore, or flat out deny access to their society's laws, benefits, and financial participation in institutions. It is not uncommon for animalfolk in non-animalfolk society to be excluded, fiscally and socially.

The ancestral source of the animalfolk is a perplexing topic for evolutionary researchers and exotic anthropologists alike. While some have speculated that animalfolk are necessarily the result of a union between the base animal and a humanoid creature, neither proof nor evidence supporting this claim have been documented. Ebontide-based anthropologist Sahirah Salib claims that animalfolk are "evolutionary aberrations" spawned by magical or chaotic influence. Salib continues, that "...the presence of wild magicks \[sic.\] can... create animalfok \[sic.\]."