Poised between the worlds of the living and the dead, dhampirs have a tenuous grip on life while being endlessly tested by their hunger. Dhampirs are the result of a union between a vampire and a mortal creature. Their ties to a vampire grant dhampirs a taste of the vampire's deathless powers, in the form of increased speed, deeply enhanced vision, and a life-draining bite; their ties to a mortal grant dhampirs freedom from many of the drawbacks of being a vampire, including tolerating the gaze of the Light. While vampires can necessarily turn mortals into more vampires, dhampirs can only turn mortals into dead mortals. It is unknown if a vampire can turn a dhampir.

Dhampirs are not required to be products of the union of vampires and mortals, however. By any number of perverse methods, a mortal creature can become a dhampir, or begin to exhibit dhampir-like qualities. For example, [[Dante du Fleur]], once damned to isolation and immortality, became a dhampir at the hands of [[Manetto Donati]]. 

In a state of unlife, having been rejected from Tyria by Death themselves, Dante drifted to the edge of the aether to Manetto. There, Dante was revitalized, filled to the brim with Manetto's zeal, yet still carrying the Death's curse of unlife. In this state, Dante would fall back to Tyria, a dhampir.

The bloodthirsty nature of the dhampir forces them to seek refuge outside of contemporary civilization. They are thrust from society and endlessly vilified, and often find themselves joining the occult, the hidden, and the outcast. Some seek danger, personifying the monsters society casts them as; others pursue revenge against their vampiric parent. Others still embrace the solitude of their lives, distancing themselves, and protecting others from their hunger.