The Divinarius were the 3 children that [[Tyria]] molded out of clay and water at the dawn of time. Tyria fashioned them in her image, and made for them a playground, made of rolling hills, luscious trees, and shallow-enough lakes. For a time, they were content. Theirs was a life of joy, of accidents, and of bandages. Tyria, ever watchful, labored to ensure that any damages that the Divinarius sustained, any chipping or breaking of their body, would be swiftly repaired. The Divinarius learned from her example to help and to aid one another, and most importantly, to aid themselves. They loved each other, and Tyria loved them.

As they lived longer and longer, their wounds proved tougher and tougher to repair. Fingers, then whole hands would fall off, forcing Tyria to fashion new hands, new legs for her children at an ever-accelerating rate\*. After untold time, in this loop of repair and disrepair, the Divinarius became too fragile for even Tyria to keep alive. One fateful day, with her 3 children too worn to stay awake, they closed their eyes, never to reopen them.

In myth, it's claimed that the Divinarius, the remnants of their bodies, are the landmasses upon which most all society in the Material exist. Their clay, still imbued with life gifted to them from Tyria, sprouted the first people to roam the land; 3 ancestral civilizations: the [[Elves]], the [[Dwarves]], and the [[Humans]].

No evidence has been presented concerning the location of their playground, nor the origin of the clay that was used in the creation of the Divinarius. Earthen samples show no such presence of life, beyond any fungal, bacterial, or any micro-organisms typically expected of soil. It's acknowledged that the presence of these micro-organisms could be proof of the "gift of life" referenced in myth above, however I cannot, in good faith, back such a claim without first seeing this mythical life-bearing clay.

*\*An arms race, if you will.*