Elves are tall, long-lived creatures, with a strong tradition of art and magic. Native to [[Tyria's Root]], the elves are rooted in a natural, forest-bound life. With a deep attunement to nature and its bounty, the first elves strived for a life in tune with Tyria's seasonal cycle, waxing and waning alongside the leaves. Naturally as time passed, the elves roamed the lands, and divided into multiple subgroups of elves. Each of these subcultures of elves have shaped, and been shaped by the world, and all of them claim a most pure connection to nature.
## Wood Elves
The original, and subsequently longest lasting society of elves, lives in and around Tyria's Root. These elves may be referred to as wood elves, or simply as elves. These elves, of central Metrica Province, have remained strict and orthodox in their beliefs and habits, with many claiming to have been present at the time of the elves' creation. The wood elves' orthodoxy is centered on the stringent belief that all creatures, except the elves, are made equal. Elves, uniquely, are the shepherds of life upon Tyria, and are tasked with the divine responsibility of tending to the forest in which they live. It is the wood elves' belief that Tyria's Root is the "origin of all woodland life", and therefore, all life upon Tyria.

Wood elf society, in present-Solstice-timeline day, has calcified. The tradition to life in harmony with nature has evolved into a tradition of isolation, and settled. Wood elves do not condone interacting with the outside world, and only allow the pursuit of communication insofar as required to protect life around the Root. Wood elves believe that their rite to the Root is sacred and uncontestable, seeing threats from beyond as tests of spirit. 

Outsiders are tolerated within the forests surrounding the Root, so long as they do not meddle with woodland life. Elves are scattered across the forests surrounding the Root, using their enhanced eyesight, and an intricate system of hand signals to rapidly identify and protect against hostiles. These scouting elves prefer to use bows, arrows, and throwing daggers to avoid causing accidental damage to the Root. Armed with precision and communication, scouts move silently across the canopy layer of the forest, disarming human-laid traps, disposing of malefactors, and keep the peace.

Consumption of animal flesh, even in a disaster scenario, is sin. Mushrooms are generally avoided, following the fungal pandemic post-ASCENSION. Society is deeply central and self-policing, with the only authoritative figures being the eldest few wood elves. Enforcement and interpretation of religious beliefs are enacted by society as a whole, whose ideas mingle within cliques, before spreading farther along the tree. Wood elves have a particular disdain for the elves of E'Lenora.
## The Elves of E'Lenora
Some elves departed from Tyria's Root after an ideological clash in elven society. In response to the growing industry in cities like Asteria and Highgate, some elves believed that the only way to protect nature from machine's hungry jaws, was to adopt that very machinery as part of nature. It was no sin, in their eyes, to turn to tools that nature could produce, so long as they learned to live harmoniously with both nature and machine. Many rejected this ideal, citing the difficulties a civilization would face serving two masters -- especially two opposing forces. From the perspective of wood elf purists, humans' extensive logging and burning was a damning enough sign against industrial progress. The two, nature and machine, were irreconcilable.

Following their cultural rejection from Tyria's Root, the industrialists among the wood elves left Tyria's Root -- south, for [[E'Lenora]]. Unwittingly, it seemed Tyria guided the industrious elves to Pharasma's leftovers, and had tasked them with the safeguarding of Pharasma's machine. 

The migrating elves, upon finding a huge monument to brutalist machinery seemingly constructed by nobody in the middle of the woods, immediately took this as a sign from the gods. They began maintenance of Pharasma's machine in earnest, dubbing the huge, stone hammer and its supporting machinery, "The Hill".

For the elves of E'Lenora, life became a routine meditation on the nature of the machine, and machine's place in nature. The E'Lenorans lived in and among the gears and axels of the machine, working uphill against a seemingly-endless tide of broken knobs, chipped gear teeth, and rusting components. They found peace in this repetition, maintaining themselves to this innocuous task not as a religious dedication, but as a way of life. The E'Lenorans attempted to recreate the scouting elf defensive pattern that those of the Root possessed, but, without the experience and teachers to guide them, failed to. Instead, the E'Lenorans created a simple perimeter patrol, who, in turn, took their job lightly, and let many an outsider pass into E'Lenora.

This meditative routine was ended by one obsessive technofascist. Mania, after settling Axis, was having troubles getting her Axiomites to function. To remedy this, Mania sought to subjugate the elves of E'Lenora, and use them as pilots of the Axiomites. Following the Solstice, Axis merged with E'Lenora, and Mania dropped the act. Commanding her Axiomites personally, the elves of E'Lenora were conquered, and have been taken as slaves. The elves of E'Lenora ultimately became what they sought after: lubricant in the grinding gears of industry.

Not all of the elves of E'Lenora were conquered. An estimated 800 E'Lenorans escaped, or were outside of E'Lenora when the Solstice came. These elves, scattered about southern Revanon, fled to the likes of [[F'mdell]] and [[A'yalalora]], bringing with them stories of Mania's influence.
## Dark Elves
The dark elves, or drow, or cavern elves, are descendants of the elves who followed the Dwarves into the depths of Tyria. Unlike the dwarves, the elves were particularly susceptible to the influence of the Dark festering within Tyria, and as such were changed into a demon-worshipping culture. The influence of the Dark on the elves is lasting and tainting, causing the now-dark elves to see their brethren as hostile, corrupted, and impure. Dark elven society views the Dark as all that is natural, and all else, as unnatural. It is alleged that the dark elves knew in advance that the dwarves were quarrying into a long-slumbering parasite within Tyria, and did not notify them. Dwarves who survived the near-extinction of their ancestry noted that the neighboring elves *"spat, like sparks"* when speaking to them. *"Their hate knew no border".* 
## The High Elves
Some elves considered it natural and exciting to explore the world, beyond the short scope of the Root. These wayfaring elves crossed the Unending Sea, and landed upon the verdant plains of Solva. There, the elves settled, and lived contentedly for some few decades, until humans began to arrive. Proximal discomfort became territorial spats, which became constant skirmishing. The humans of Dawnguard developed the Warforged, and the elves moved into [[Elkmire]].

Elkmire is a fortress keep, expansive and domineering over the [[Ashen Peaks]], and is ruinously effective at keeping humans out. It operates as a city state, exploiting the elves' heightened tolerance for cold weather, allowing the elves a moment's peace from the chaos below. Thanks to the desperate climate it's housed in, Elkmire is largely unchanged between the Solsticed and Eclipsed timelines.

Elkmire's isolation afforded the high elves (lit., *high* elf) time to review their philosophy, and refine their magics. Motivated by their human offenders, high elven society shifted towards a belief that might makes right, and that only the strongest, most powerful species can survive. As such, it became policy to allow duels and skirmishes to occur within their ranks, so long as all parties agree to whatever outcome results. Those with the strongest will, will survive.
## Notable Elves
- [[Booke]], a wood elf residing within [[Tyria's Root]] in the form of a book, Booke was instrumental in the protection of Tyria's Root across timelines.
- [[Ambrose Tenebris]], a dark elf that held a leadership position in the [[Unseen]] as "Five", Ambrose leveraged his position to create a better life for himself and his nephews.