Kalashtar are the result of the union between a divine being and a mortal. The result of the birth or creation of a Kalashtar, is the death of the divine parent. The cause of this fated death is connected to the deteriorative effects of [[Tyria]]'s grief over the death of her own children, the [[Divinarius]]. Sarril Mor of Dweomerheart theorizes that Tyria's grief, spawned over watching her children die, has spread into the Aether, and manifested its own will. Sarril theorizes Tyria's grief wishes for no creature, divine or otherwise, to witness the death of their children; by damning the divine parent to die, then, Tyria's grief ensures this will not be the case.

The Kalashtar are bound, by blood and Aether, to surpass and replace their divine parent. As a Kalashtar reaches physical and mental maturity, their mixed blood grows in strength, met by a growing weakness in their divine parent. By the time the child reaches full maturity (est. mid-20s for a human-divine child), the divine parent will reach maximal weakness, and pass on. With proximity or force of will, this process can be accelerated. Following the death of the divine parent, the mortal-divine child is made to assume their parent's power.

[[Qatar Altan]], once believed to be son of Isko Kidar (under the name, "Loid Altan") and Akilah Altan, was later revealed to be the son of Isko and [[Selûne, the enervate]]. Selûne, then-god of the Light, grew weary of her responsibilities, and reached out to Isko, then-Kadir of the Ja'Almawt, for aid. Isko, knowing what such a union would mean for his child, met with Selûne to aid her, regardless of what his future child would be made to endure. In this way, the nature of the Kalashtar was used by the divine as a method of suicide (*deicide, if you will*) seen by some, as a cowardly escape from their duty.