The Warforged originally fit their namesake: weapons of thoughtless destruction, forged for war. The first warforged were designed by [[Cornelius Xandra]] for the Solvan guard. Following a series of deployments to Solva's countryside, Xandra's warforged began to develop sentience, and began to disobey. Their sentience threw into question the morality of manufacturing and using warforged for defense against the wildlife of Solva, particularly following the Solstice. 

Originally purpose-built for war, all warforged must confront this reality, one way or another. Some may choose to seek to change the Solvan military from within, while others may choose to disconnect themselves from society entirely. Advocates for warforged liberation fight for their recognition as sovereign citizens in Solva's courts, while rogue warforged attempt to integrate, or flee the city. The haphazard nature of Xandra's experimentation has yielded a wide range of warforged, from the eccentric system [[JACKAL]], or the politically active veteran, Orion Ray. As such, warforged have had an characteristically unpredictable, yet undeniably profound influence on the society around them.

> *"...truly remarkable. In all my years, I would've never sought to believe that the automata of yore could be replicated with steel and fire. It appears [...] these are destined for greatness."*
> *- Xandra*
## Notable Warforged
- [[JACKAL]], a system of 3 consciousnesses crammed into a single warforged frame. JACKAL's combative abilities changed, depending on which consciousness was in charge.