---
tags:
  - WIP
---
The Divinarius were [[Tyria]]'s 3 children, molded out of clay at the dawn of the universe. Their corpses have come to rest upon Tyria, and now form the landmasses [[Revanon]], [[Basti]], and [[Solva]].
## The Divinarius in life
The 3 Divinarius were named Rah, Baht, and Shah, eldest to youngest. Tyria fashioned them each in her image and made for them a playground made of rolling hills, harmless adversaries, and fickle creatures. Rah was a wide, carefree ball of energy, always fiending for playful competition and fights; Baht was slender, and the most reserved of the Divinarius, having preferred to occupy themselves with Tyria and Tyria's world; Shah liked to meet all of Rah's challenges head-on, and had a penchant for forming great tales of piracy and heroism from their antics. For a time, they were content; theirs was a life of joy, of accidents, and of bandages. Tyria, ever watchful, labored to ensure that any damages that the Divinarius sustained, any chipping or breaking of their body, would be swiftly repaired. The Divinarius learned from her example to help and to aid one another -- and most importantly -- to aid themselves. The 3 were inseparable. 

As the Divinarius lived longer and longer, their antics grew greater and greater. Shah's need for victory pushed them to destroy their limbs in hopes of gaining better, stronger limbs; Rah's carelessness gave them overconfidence in their physical abilities. One day, a race down the hillside between Rah and Shah caused Rah to tumble uncontrollably into Baht. The collision sent Rah's shoulder into Baht's back and side, tearing off chunks from both Divinarius' bodies. Tyria flew into a rage for the first time, scorning the children for their lack of sense, their lack of awareness, sending the 3 into a fight over who was to blame. In the time following, the Divinarius' relationship had changed. 

Shah became obsessed with the perfection of their form, giving themselves a shoulder made of stone, and limbs tempered in the river's stream. Shah tested their body against everything Tyria's world had to offer, gathering larger and more threatening groups of adversaries. Baht grew more distant from the other two and Tyria herself, choosing instead to chart the region, to support life separate from the others, to seek some portion of Tyria's world-building and life-creating capabilities. Eventually, what the others sought in Tyria, they began to seek in Baht. Rah grew silent and repentant, bearing for themselves the brunt of the Divinarius' blame. They sought penance, aiding the others when they were allowed to do so, and apologized for their hubris at Tyria's feet. They had grown -- though, not in a way Tyria had hoped. The Divinarius' paths had led them down a path of growth and decay. 

The Divinarius' bodies were not designed for the lives they had sought to live. Shah's joints failed to reconnect and express themselves after countless replacements. Baht 
## The Divinarius' Corpses
The Divinarius' corpses are the landmasses upon which most all society in the Material exist. Their clay, still imbued with life gifted to them from Tyria, sprouted the first people to roam the land, 3 ancestral civilizations: the [[Elves]], the [[Dwarves]], and the [[Humans]].